---
title: Mecha Critical Hits
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Mecha](/future.d20.srd/mecha) > Mecha Critical Hits

## Mecha Critical Hits

Whenever you confirm a critical hit against a mecha, you may choose to roll
percentile dice and consult Table: Mecha Critical Hits instead of dealing the
normal critical hit damage for the attack. However, you must accept the
results of the roll, even if those results are less than desirable.


<table> <tr><th colspan="2">Table: Mecha Critical Hits</th></tr> <tr><th>d%</th><th>Roll Effect(s)</th></tr> <tr><td>01–15</td><td>Normal damage, crew dazed</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>16–35</td><td>Normal critical hit, crew dazed</td></tr> <tr><td>36–45</td><td>Normal critical hit, mecha knocked prone</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>46–50</td><td>Severe critical hit, crew dazed, mecha stunned</td></tr> <tr><td>51–55</td><td>Severe critical hit, mecha knocked prone</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>56–60</td><td>Crew hit (normal damage)</td></tr> <tr><td>61–70</td><td>Normal damage, equipment damaged</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>71–80</td><td>Normal damage, equipment destroyed</td></tr> <tr><td>81–90</td><td>Normal critical hit, slot damaged</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>91–100</td><td>Normal critical hit, slot destroyed</td></tr> </table>



Normal Damage: The attack deals normal damage (do not apply critical hit
multipliers).

Crew Dazed: Each crewmember aboard the mecha, including its operator, must
succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 15) or be dazed for 1 round. Unable to act, a
dazed character can take no actions, but still retains his or her full
Defense.

Normal Critical Hit: Roll critical hit damage normally.

Mecha Knocked Prone: The force of the attack knocks the mecha prone. All
crewmembers and passengers aboard take 1d6 points of bludgeoning damage as
they are knocked about their cockpits. A prone mecha takes a –4 penalty on
melee attack rolls and can’t use thrown ranged weapons. The mecha gains a +4
bonus to Defense against ranged attacks, but takes a –4 penalty to Defense
against melee attacks.

Standing up from prone is a move action that provokes attacks of opportunity.

Mecha Stunned: The mecha automatically drops what it is holding and can take
no attack or move actions for 1 round. While the mecha is stunned, apply a –2
penalty to the mecha operator’s Defense (even though the operator is not
stunned).

Severe Critical Hit: Roll critical hit damage using a x5 multiplier instead of
the weapon’s normal multiplier.

Crew Hit: The attack bypasses the mecha’s armor and superstructure. Apply
normal damage to one crewmember or passenger (determined randomly), ignoring
the mecha’s bonus hit points.

Equipment Destroyed: One piece of equipment (attacker’s choice) is damaged and
ceases to function until repaired. It can be a flight system, sensor system,
defense system, weapon (handheld or integrated), or miscellaneous system.
Repairing a damaged system requires 1 hour of work and a successful Repair
check (DC 20).

Equipment Destroyed: One piece of equipment (attacker’s choice) is destroyed
and ceases to function. It can be a flight system, sensor system, defense
system, weapon (handheld or integrated), or miscellaneous system. A destroyed
system cannot be repaired, only replaced.

Slot Damaged: One of the mecha’s equipment slots (attacker’s choice) is
damaged. Any piece of equipment wholly or partially installed in that slot
will not function until the slot is repaired. Repairing a damaged equipment
slot requires 1 hour of work and a successful Repair check (DC 25).

Slot Destroyed: One of the mecha’s equipment slots (attacker’s choice) is
destroyed, along with any piece of equipment wholly or partially installed in
it. Rebuilding a destroyed equipment slot requires 12 hours of work and a
successful Craft (mechanical) check (DC 30).

