---
title: Mecha Superstructure
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [ Mecha ](/future.d20.srd/mecha) > Mecha Superstructure

##  Mecha Superstructure

A mecha's superstructure--its exoskeleton, interior braces, and other
structural parts--can be made from any sufficiently advanced metal alloy.
Whatever its composition, a mecha's superstructure has a hardness that reduces
the damage the mecha takes from weapons and collisions.

To build a mecha superstructure from scratch, a character must succeed at a
Craft (mechanical) check (DC 30) and a Craft (structural) check (DC 30) after
investing the requisite amount of assembly time, based on the mecha's size:
Large 150 hours, Huge 300 hours, Gargantuan 600 hours, Colossal 1,200 hours. A
character without a mechanical tool kit takes a -4 penalty on both skill
checks. The character must also make a Wealth check against the mecha's base
purchase DC.

Different types of superstructure materials are presented below and summarized
in Table: Superstructure Materials.

Hardness: The amount of damage the material absorbs from a weapon hit or
collision.

Base Purchase DC Modifier: The modifier applied to the mecha's base purchase
DC.

Restriction: Since mecha require a license to own and operate, the materials
used for making them do not require special licenses to purchase.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="6"> Table: Superstructure Materials </th> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="6"> ---- Modified Base Purchase DC ---- </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Superstructure Material </th> <th> Hardness </th> <th> Large </th> <th> Huge </th> <th> Gargantuan </th> <th> Colossal </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Alumisteel (PL 5) </td> <td> 10 </td> <td> 36 </td> <td> 40 </td> <td> 44 </td> <td> 56 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Duralloy (PL 6) </td> <td> 15 </td> <td> 40 </td> <td> 44 </td> <td> 48 </td> <td> 60 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Vanadium (PL 6) </td> <td> 20 </td> <td> 44 </td> <td> 48 </td> <td> 52 </td> <td> 64 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Neovulcanium (PL 7) </td> <td> 20 </td> <td> 40 </td> <td> 44 </td> <td> 48 </td> <td> 60 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Neutronite (PL 7) </td> <td> 25 </td> <td> 44 </td> <td> 48 </td> <td> 52 </td> <td> 64 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Megatanium (PL 8) </td> <td> 30 </td> <td> 40 </td> <td> 40 </td> <td> 48 </td> <td> 60 </td> </tr> </table>



###  Alumisteel (PL 5)

This easy-to-acquire alloy is lightweight and reasonably strong. Alumisteel
can also be used for armor (see Mecha Armor, below).

Hardness: 10.

Base Purchase DC Modifier: -4.

###  Duralloy (PL 6)

Duralloy is harder, heavier, and more durable than alumisteel. It can also be
used to fashion armor (see Mecha Armor, below).

Hardness: 15.

Base Purchase DC Modifier: None.

###  Vanadium (PL 6)

Vanadium alloy absorbs a respectable amount of damage and is easy to mold.

Hardness: 20.

Base Purchase DC Modifier: +4.

###  Neovulcanium (PL 7)

Similar to duralloy, neovulcanium uses plasma-forging techniques to create an
alloy of unparalleled resilience. Neovulcanium can also be used for armor (see
Mecha Armor, below).

Hardness: 20.

Base Purchase DC Modifier: None.

###  Neutronite (PL 7)

Neutronite is a tough steel alloy into which a weave of free neutrons has been
pressed. It is extremely resilient but also incredibly massive, weighing
approximately five times more than a similar volume of lead.

Hardness: 25.

Base Purchase DC Modifier: +4.

###  Megatanium (PL 8)

Sandwiched layers of crystal carbon and neovulcanium held in a magnetic
matrix, megatanium is exceedingly hard and durable. Megatanium can also be
used for armor (see Mecha Armor, below).

Hardness: 30.

Base Purchase DC Modifier: None.

