---
title: Energy Age Weapons
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The following weapons are available at PL 8.


<table> <tr><th colspan="12">Table: Progress Level 8 Ranged Weapons </th></tr><tr><th>Weapon<sup>1</sup></th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Rate of Fire</th><th>Magazine</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>Cryonic rifle</td><td>3d6</td><td>20</td><td>Cold</td><td>20 feet</td><td>S</td><td>10 box</td><td>Large</td><td>8 lb.</td><td>21</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Disintegrator</td><td>3d8</td><td>20</td><td>Energy<sup>2</sup></td><td>30 feet</td><td>S</td><td>10 box</td><td>Large</td><td>6 lb.</td><td>23</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr><td>Lightning gun</td><td>3d6</td><td>20</td><td>Electricity</td><td>50 feet</td><td>S, A</td><td>30 box</td><td>Huge</td><td>30 lb.</td><td>24</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Pulse rifle</td><td>3d10</td><td>20</td><td>Fire</td><td>80 feet</td><td>S, A</td><td>50 box</td><td>Large</td><td>11 lb.</td><td>21</td><td>Res (+2)</td></tr> <tr><td>Sonic beam</td><td>2d6 + special</td><td>20</td><td>Sonic</td><td>40 feet</td><td>S</td><td>50 box</td><td>Medium</td><td>3 lb.</td><td>18</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="12" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> <sup>1</sup> All weapons listed in this table require the Personal Firearms Proficiency feat.<br/> <sup>2</sup> This weapon deals damage of a nonspecific energy type that is not subject to energy resistance.</td></tr> </table>

 
<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: Progress Level 8 Melee Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon<sup>1</sup></th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>Beam sword</td><td>2d8</td><td>19–20</td><td>Fire</td><td>—</td><td>Medium</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>17</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="12" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"><sup>1</sup> All weapons listed in this table require the Simple Weapons Proficiency feat.</td></tr> </table>

 <!--
TABLE_PLACEHOLDER_2 --> 
<table> <tr><th colspan="11">Table: Progress Level 8 Explosives And Splash Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon</th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Burst Radius</th><th>Reflex DC</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>Grenade, cryonic</td><td>8d6</td><td>—</td><td>Cold</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>15</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Small</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>19</td><td>Res (+2) </td></tr><tr class="shaded"><td>Grenade, psionic</td><td>Special<sup>1</sup></td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>18</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Tiny</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>22</td><td>Res (+2) </td></tr><tr><td>Grenade, singularity</td><td>15d6</td><td>—</td><td>Energy<sup>2</sup></td><td>5 ft.</td><td>15</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Small</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>26</td><td>Mil (+3) </td></tr><tr><td colspan="12" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> <sup>1</sup> See the weapon description for details.<br/> <sup>2</sup> This weapon deals damage of a nonspecific energy type that is not subject to energy resistance.</td></tr> </table>



### Ammunition, Phasing

Phasing bullets contain microscopic computers and teleporters. When a phasing
bullet encounters an obstacle between it and its target, it simply teleports
past the obstacle and continues on course. In game terms, phasing bullets
negate the benefits of cover.

### Beam Sword

The beam sword is the Energy Age’s most potent melee weapon. A small metal
handle generates a solid beam of plasma contained by a gravity-induced force
field.

### Cryonic Rifle

The perfection of cryogenic technology finally reaches its most portable form
in the Energy Age. A cryonic rifle draws power from a canister of compressed
mutagen, which is transmitted, via an energy beam into the target. The cryonic
beam deals 3d6 points of cold damage. A target reduced to negative hit points
by the weapon instantly stabilizes. Furthermore, if the ray deals sufficient
damage to reduce the target to –10 or fewer hit points, the target instead
drops to –9 hit points and stabilizes automatically (in other words, the
target does not die).

Cryonic rifles do not use ammunition, but are instead powered by special power
packs that allow 10 shots each (purchase DC8).

### Disintegrator

Resembling a laser rifle, a disintegrator fires a micro-singularity that
obliterates the target’s molecular structure on impact. Any living creature
reduced to –10 hit points by the weapon completely disintegrates. Objects and
nonliving creatures (including robots) reduced to 0 hit points by the weapon
are likewise disintegrated.

Disintegrators do not use ammunition, but are instead powered by special power
packs that allow 10 shots each (purchase DC 8).

### Grenade, Cryonic

When a cryonic grenade explodes, it deals 8d6 points of cold damage to all
creatures in a 10-foot burst radius. A successful Reflex save (DC 15) halves
the damage. The freezing cold automatically stabilizes any creature reduced to
negative hit points by the blast. If the cryonic blast deals sufficient damage
to reduce a target to –10 or fewer hit points, the target instead drops to –9
hit points and stabilizes automatically (in other words, the target does not
die).

### Grenade, Psionic

A psionic grenade releases a 10-foot-radius psionic blast that affects only
creatures with psionic abilities or powers. Any such creature that fail a
Reflex save (DC 18) cannot use its psionic abilities or psionic powers for 1d4
rounds. In addition, it must succeed on a Will s ave (DC 15) o r suffer 1d6
points of temporary I ntelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma damage.

### Grenade, Singularity

A singularity grenade generates a gravity field so powerful that it bends
space into a miniature black hole. The black hole instantly devours all light
and matter before collapsing and vanishing. Any character or object in the
grenade’s 5-foot burst radius takes 15d6 points of damage. A successful Reflex
save (DC 15) halves the damage. If the damage is enough to reduce a creature
to –10 hit points, the grenade leaves no trace of the creature behind.

### Lightning Gun

A bulky and unwieldy weapon, the lightning gun is usually mounted on a tripod.
It fires a crackling ray of electricity capable of sweeping large areas
quickly. Characters wielding a lightning gun automatically gain the benefits
of the Strafe feat.

Lightning guns do not use ammunition, but are instead powered by special power
packs that allow 30 shots each (purchase DC 8).

### Pulse Rifle

The pulse rifle is a fully automatic laser assault rifle capable of firing a
rapid barrage of laser rounds. The pulse rifle is the standard issue weapon
given to most heavy assault soldiers in the Energy Age. Pulse rifles do not
use ammunition, but are instead powered by power packs.

### Sonic Beam

The sonic blaster fires a pulse of destructive sound at the target, dealing
2d6 points of sonic damage. In addition, any creature damaged by the sonic
pulse must succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 15) or be deafened and shaken for
1d4 rounds.

Sonic beams do not use ammunition, but are instead powered by power packs.

