---
title: Fusion Age Weapons
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Equipment](/future.d20.srd/equipment) > Fusion Age Weapons

## Fusion Age Weapons

The following weapons are available at PL 6 and later.


<table> <tr><th colspan="11">Table: Progress Level 6 Ranged Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon<sup>1</sup></th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Rate of Fire</th><th>Magazine</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>Laser pistol</td><td>2d8</td><td>20</td><td>Fire</td><td>40 feet</td><td>S</td><td>50 box</td><td>Medium</td><td>3 lb.</td><td>17</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Laser rifle</td><td>3d8</td><td>20</td><td>Fire</td><td>80 feet</td><td>S, A</td><td>50 box</td><td>Large</td><td>8 lb.</td><td>19</td><td>Res (+2)</td></tr> <tr><td>Laser sniper rifle</td><td>3d8</td><td>20</td><td>Fire</td><td>120 feet</td><td>S</td><td>50 box</td><td>Large</td><td>14 lb.</td><td>21</td><td>Res (+2)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Mini-grenade launcher</td><td>Varies<sup>2</sup></td><td>20</td><td>Varies<sup>2</sup></td><td>70 feet</td><td>Single</td><td>1 int.</td><td>Medium</td><td>4 lb.</td><td>20</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr><td>Mini-rocket launcher</td><td>Varies<sup>2</sup></td><td>20</td><td>Varies<sup>2</sup></td><td>150 feet</td><td>Single</td><td>1 int.</td><td>Medium</td><td>5 lb.</td><td>23</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Tangler gun</td><td>Special</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>20 feet</td><td>S, A</td><td>20 box</td><td>Large</td><td>8 lb.</td><td>16</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="11" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> <sup>1</sup> All weapons listed in this table require the Personal Firearms Proficiency feat.<br/> <sup>2</sup> Damage and damage type varies depending on the ammunition.</td></tr> </table>
 
<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: Progress Level 6 Melee Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon<sup>1</sup></th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>High frequency sword</td><td>2d6</td><td>19–20</td><td>Slashing</td><td>—</td><td>Large</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>15</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Stun baton</td><td>1d6 + special</td><td>20</td><td>Bludgeoning</td><td>—</td><td>Medium</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>16</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="11" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"><sup>1</sup> All weapons listed in this table require the Simple Weapons Proficiency feat.</td></tr> </table>
 <!--
TABLE_PLACEHOLDER_2 --> 
<table> <tr><th colspan="11">Table: Progress Level 6 Explosives And Splash Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon</th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Burst Radius</th><th>Reflex DC</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>Grenade, concussion</td><td>4d6 nonlethal</td><td>—</td><td>Concussion</td><td>15 ft.</td><td>15</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Tiny</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>15</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Grenade, EMP</td><td>Special<sup>1</sup></td><td>—</td><td>Electricity</td><td>20 ft.</td><td>15</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Small</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>16</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr><td>Grenade, fireflush</td><td>3d6</td><td>—</td><td>Fire</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>15</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Small</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>18</td><td>Res (+2)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Grenade, tangler</td><td>Special<sup>1</sup></td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>5 ft.</td><td>12</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Tiny</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>14</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="11" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"><sup>1</sup> See the weapon description for details.</td></tr> </table>


### Ammunition, Bio-Agent

Unfortunately for its victims, biological warfare continues to be a common
part of combat even in the Fusion Age. Bio-agent ammunition is a logical
extension of previous military tactics with regards to biological warfare.

Bio-agent ammunition contains a miniscule amount of a biological weapon inside
an insulated chamber within each round. Use of bio-agent ammunition causes a
–1 penalty to damage. However, any living creature damaged by the round is
injected with a poisonous bio-agent with effects identical to cyanogen gas.

### Grenade, Concussion

Law enforcement officers in the Fusion Age use concussion grenades to knock
out threatening targets. Living creatures within the concussion grenade’s
10-foot burst radius take 4d6 points of nonlethal concussion damage, or half
damage on a successful Reflex save (DC 15). Concussion grenades do not affect
robots or other nonliving creatures.

### Grenade, EMP

An EMP grenade releases an electromagnetic pulse that instantly shorts out all
electronic devices (including computers) within a 20-foot burst radius.
Affected devices remain nonfunctional until repaired (see the Repair skill
description for details).

The EMP grenade deals no damage to living creatures. However, a creature with
cybernetic attachments takes 1d6 points of electricity damage per cybernetic
attachment (maximum 5d6) and must succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 15) or be
stunned for 1d4 rounds. If the cybernetically enhanced creature rolls a
natural 1 on its Fortitude save, each of its cybernetic attachments takes 1d6
points of electricity damage as well.

An EMP grenade deals 5d6 points of electricity damage to a mecha or robot.

### Grenade, Fireflush

A fireflush grenade contains a chemical compound that combusts immediately
upon contact with oxygen

When a fireflush grenade detonates, it produces geysers of flame that fill a
10-foot burst radius. All creatures and objects within the burst radius take
3d6 points of fire damage. The blast also ignites clothing and other flammable
items.

### Grenade, Tangler

The tangler grenade operates on the same principle as the tangler gun, but
targets an area rather than one specific character. Any time a character is
struck by a tangler grenade, that character suffers a cumulative –2 penalty to
Dexterity. This penalty remains in place until the compound is dissolved.

If the character is struck with enough tangler grenades that the penalty is
equal to or greater than his Dexterity, he is immobilized and may take no
actions until the compound is dissolved. Dexterity penalties from tangler
grenades stack with those from tangler guns.

Hardened compound dissolves naturally after 8 hours or can be removed by using
solvaway chemical or some other spray solvent.

### High Frequency Sword

One of the few melee weapons to be developed in the Fusion Age, the high
frequency sword is made of a durable metal alloy many times tougher than
steel. Inside the blade itself, and controlled by a switch on the hilt of the
weapon, are microscopic machines that cause the blade to vibrate at incredibly
high speeds. Though the wielder of the weapon is shielded from these
vibrations by a soft hilt, any character or object struck by the high
frequency sword finds that the weapon is given extra cutting power thanks to
its technological enhancements.

### Laser Weapons

Laser weapons come in many shapes and sizes, from pistols to rifles and other
longarms. Many different forms of technology can be used to create laser
weapons, resulting in many different forms of lasers; short, self-contained
beams are as common as longer, solid stream lasers, while others produce
spherical balls of energy and others fire laser rings. The coloration and
noise created by the laser may vary, but the effect is the same.

Laser weapons do not use ammunition, but are instead powered by power packs.

### Mini-Grenade Launcher

Though personal grenade launchers were commonly found in the Information Age,
the mini-grenade launcher is somewhat different in that it is reduced to
roughly the size of a large pistol. Additionally, the ammunition it uses,
while still as potent as hand-held counterparts, is reduced in size to match
the weapon.

Though shoulder-carried missile launchers were commonly found in the
Information Age, the mini-rocket launcher is somewhat different in that it is
reduced to roughly the size of a large pistol. Additionally, the ammunition it
uses is reduced in size to match the weapon.

### Stun Baton

The stun baton is a long rod similar to those carried by modern-day police
officers, though on one end of the baton a metal cap that emits a pulse of
stunning energy when it strikes a target. Any creature hit by a stun baton
takes 1d6 points of bludgeoning damage and must succeed on a Fortitude save
(DC 10 + damage dealt) or be stunned for 1d4 rounds.

### Tangler Gun

A unique nonlethal weapon eagerly adopted by law enforcement agencies around
the world, the tangler gun fires condensed balls of an incredibly sticky
compound that can render a target immobile in a few short moments. The tangler
gun fires pellets of an inert compound that, when broken, expand into a
gelatinous substance that covers large portions of a target. Unfortunately for
the target, the disgusting mess soon becomes more problematic as the compound
hardens. Within second, a single pellet no larger than a fingernail has
expanded into a ball of goop and then hardened into an immobilizing layer of
tough chitin.

Any time a character is struck by a tangler gun, that character suffers a
cumulative –2 penalty to Dexterity. This penalty remains in place until the
compound is dissolved.

If the character is struck with enough tangler pellets that the penalty is
equal to or greater than his Dexterity, he is immobilized and may take no
actions until the compound is dissolved. Dexterity penalties from tangler guns
stack with those from tangler grenades.

Hardened compound dissolves naturally after 8 hours or can be removed by using
solvaway chemical or some other spray solvent.

