---
title: Gravity Age Weapons
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Equipment](/future.d20.srd/equipment) > Gravity Age Weapons

## Gravity Age Weapons

The following weapons are available at PL 7 and later.


<table> <tr><th colspan="11">Table: Progress Level 7 Ranged Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon<sup>1</sup></th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Rate of Fire</th><th>Magazine</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>Concussion rifle</td><td>2d10 + special</td><td>20</td><td>Concussion</td><td>20 feet</td><td>S</td><td>—</td><td>Large</td><td>6 lb.</td><td>22</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Gravity snare</td><td>Special</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>30 feet</td><td>S</td><td>—</td><td>Large</td><td>7 lb.</td><td>17</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><td>Plasma pistol</td><td>2d10</td><td>20</td><td>Fire</td><td>40 feet</td><td>S</td><td>50 box</td><td>Medium</td><td>3 lb.</td><td>17</td><td>Lic (+2)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Plasma rifle</td><td>3d10</td><td>20</td><td>Fire</td><td>80 feet</td><td>S, A</td><td>50 box</td><td>Large</td><td>8 lb.</td><td>19</td><td>Res (+2)</td></tr> <tr><td>Rail gun</td><td>3d12</td><td>20</td><td>Ballistic</td><td>100 feet</td><td>S</td><td>20 box</td><td>Large</td><td>18 lb.</td><td>24</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="11" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"><sup>1</sup> All weapons listed in this table require the Personal Firearms Proficiency feat.</td></tr> </table>

 
<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: Progress Level 7 Melee Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon<sup>1</sup></th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> Concussion rod<td>2d8</td><td>20</td><td>Bludgeoning/Concussion</td><td>—</td><td>Medium</td><td>3 lb.</td><td>17</td><td>—</td> <tr><td colspan="11" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"><sup>1</sup> All weapons listed in this table require the Simple Weapons Proficiency feat.</td></tr> </table>

 <!--
TABLE_PLACEHOLDER_2 --> 
<table> <tr><th colspan="11">Table: Progress Level 7 Explosives And Splash Weapons</th></tr> <tr><th>Weapon</th><th>Damage</th><th>Critical</th><th>Damage Type</th><th>Burst Radius</th><th>Reflex DC</th><th>Range Increment</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><td>Grenade, dissolver </td><td>2d6</td><td>—</td><td>Acid</td><td>5 ft.</td><td>15</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Small</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>14</td><td>Res (+2)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Grenade, gravitic </td><td>6d6</td><td>—</td><td>Bludgeoning</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>15</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Tiny</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>20</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr><td>Grenade, stun </td><td>Special<sup>1</sup></td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>18</td><td>10 ft.</td><td>Tiny</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>17</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="11" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"><sup>1</sup> See the weapon description for details.</td></tr> </table>



### Ammunition, Deflecting

Deflecting ammunition creates a gravity deflection field that causes the
bullets to bounce off walls. When used properly, deflecting ammunition can be
bounced around any barrier, around corners, underneath vehicles, and so forth
for maximum penetration potential.

Any character using deflecting ammunition immediately gains the benefit of the
Skip Shot feat.

### Ammunition, Plasma-Coated

Consisting of an armor-piercing round enveloped in superheated plasma, this
type of ammunition reduces the Defense bonus provided by armor by 2, to a
minimum of +1. Half of the damage it deals is fire damage, and half of the
damage is ballistic damage.

### Ammunition, Seeker

Each round of seeker ammunition contains a microscopic computer and gravity-
bending generators. When seeking ammunition leaves the chamber, it immediately
detects the distance to its current target. If that target moves, the gravity
generators nudge the bullet into a new trajectory to intercept its target at
its new location. Seeking ammunition grants a +1 bonus on all ranged attacks.

### Concussion Rifle

A concussion rifle fires an artificial gravity pulse at the target with enough
force to hurl it through the air (along a path away from the shooter). The
discharged gravity pulse is mostly transparent, but bends light around itself,
creating a ripple effect along its path. The pulse deals 2d10 points of
concussion damage with a successful hit. In addition, the target is thrown
back 5 feet for every 5 points of damage dealt by the weapon. The target must
also succeed in a Fortitude save (DC = damage dealt) or be knocked prone. If
the thrown target strikes a wall or other solid surface, it takes damage as
though it had fallen from a height equal to the number of feet it was thrown
back.

### Concussion Rod

Modeled after the medieval mace, this weapon has a miniature artificial
gravity generator embedded in its alloy head, which increases in mass at the
instant of impact. The rod deals 2d8 points of damage with each successful
hit; half of the damage is bludgeoning damage; half is concussive damage.

### Gravity Snare

The gravity snare resembles a laser rifle but with two metal prongs where the
muzzle should be. When fired, the prongs generate a strip of luminescent white
energy that leaps from the end of the rifle toward the target. When the strip
of energy strikes a target, the energy bolt bends and creates a ring of
gravity around the target.

A creature hit by the gravity ring must succeed in a Reflex save (DC 13) to
avoid its effects. On a failed save, the target is entangled and unable to
move for 1d6 rounds, until the gravity ring dissipates. An entangled creature
can escape the gravity ring with a successful Escape Artist check (DC 40) or
break free with a successful Strength check (DC 30).

### Grenade, Dissolver

This grenade releases a cloud of gas that dissolves organic matter, dealing
2d6 points of acid damage per round to all living creatures and organic
materials in a 5-foot-radius burst. Suspended in an artificial gravity well,
the cloud persists until the gravity well collapses after 1 minute. The
gravity well prevents even strong winds from dispersing the acid cloud.

### Grenade, Gravitic

When this grenade detonates, it releases incredible gravitational forces. All
creatures within a 10-foot-radius burst are crushed for 6d6 points of
bludgeoning damage. A successful Reflex save (DC 15) halves the damage.

### Grenade, Stun

A stun grenade deals no damage, but any creature within its 15-foot burst
radius that fails a Reflex save (DC 18) must immediately make a Fortitude save
(DC 15) or be stunned for 1d4 rounds. A creature that succeeds on the Reflex
save is not required to make a Fortitude save and is unaffected by the
grenade. A stun grenade has no effect on robots and other creatures immune to
stunning effects.

### Plasma Weapons

Plasma occurs when gases become electrically charged after losing electrons.
Plasma weapons condense this electrically charged gas into a destructive force
that can eat through solid objects and cause severe damage. Like laser
weapons, plasma weapons come in many varieties. Most plasma weapons generate
their destructive ammunition by superheating gasses held inside specialized
power packs and then compressing those gasses into a focused plasma round.
Plasma weapons do not use ammunition, but are instead powered by power packs.

### Rail Gun

The Gravity Age rail gun uses gravity pulses, not magnets, to propel a
projectile at high velocities. Metal shards are accelerated along the rail
gun’s length, leaving the barrel at an extremely high velocity.

