---
title: Gravity Age Equipment
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The following equipment is available at PL 7 and later.


<table> <tr><th colspan="5">Table: Progress Level 7 Equipment</th></tr> <tr><th>Name</th><th>Size</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><th colspan="5" style="text-align: left">Chemical and Medical Equipment</th></tr> <tr><td>Chemical, biocort </td><td>Diminutive</td><td>—</td><td>6</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><th colspan="5" style="text-align: left">Miscellaneous Equipment</th></tr> <tr><td>GalPos device</td><td>Small</td><td>3 lb.</td><td>6</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Grappling tether</td><td>Small</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>9</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>Piercing visor</td><td>Small</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>15</td><td>Mil (+3)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Power backpack</td><td>Medium</td><td>3 lb.</td><td>8</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>Projectile deflector</td><td>Small</td><td>0.5 lb.</td><td>15</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><th colspan="5" style="text-align: left">Sensor Equipment</th></tr> <tr><td>Sensor, armacomp</td><td>Small</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>18</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Sensor, democomp</td><td>Small</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>18</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><td>Sensor, electricomp</td><td>Small</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>18</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Sensor, mechanicomp</td><td>Small</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>18</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>Sensor, medicomp</td><td>Small</td><td>1 lb.</td><td>18</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> </table>



### Chemical, Biocort

Biocort is a unique chemical compound that enhances the human body’s natural
ability to heal. Biocort pushes the immune system into overdrive, and can
cause the character to heal from grievous wounds at a greatly increased rate.
Any character injected with biocort heals at twice the normal rate for a
24-hour period.

### GalPos Device

The GalPos device is the Gravity Age equivalent of the GPS system of the
modern era. Equipped with star charts and a link to the galactic satellite
network, the GalPos device (known also as a GPD) triangulates its own position
based on distance between satellite relays and its knowledge of stellar
cartography. If the GalPos is taken to a region of space where it cannot
contact the galactic satellite network, or to a region of space not included
in its star charts, it does not function. Otherwise, the GPD can be used to
indicate what planet the is on, or what star system she is in (if not on a
planet).

A GalPos device with the satellite uplink gadget can function as a GPS
receiver on worlds where such systems are available.

### Grappling Tether

Replacing duracable and the grappling tag, the grappling tether is another
application of gravity technology put to practical use. The grappling tether
is a beam of pure gravity energy, up to 200 feet in length, fired from a metal
tube. At the end of the tether is an anchor of intense gravity. When the
anchor touches a solid object, it latches on with a grip that can only be
broken by an equally strong anti-gravity force.

While the tube is held with the anchor attached to an object, the user can
retract the tether to either pull the object to her (if the object is smaller
in mass than the character), or pull herself to the object (if the object is
greater in mass than the user, or the anchor is attached to a wall, ceiling,
or other fixed surface). The anchor is released with a simple push of a
button.

### Piercing Visor

The piercing visor allows a person to see through solid objects. Through a
combination motion-sensor data, gravity fluctuations, ambient light
penetration, x-rays and ultraviolet light, heat and infrared signatures, sound
waves and sonar, and other sensory inputs, the visor creates an accurate
computer-rendered image of what lies beyond intervening objects. Any character
wearing a piercing visor may, as an attack action, activate the visor’s
sensors and see through a wall, floor, object, or creature at a range of up to
100 feet.

The visor can penetrate 6 inches of metal (except lead, which it cannot see
through) and 1 foot of other materials, including concrete, wood, and plaster.

### Power Backpack

The power backpack is essentially a portable generator. While worn, the power
backpack can replace the power packs used by laser and plasma weapons,
granting an infinite supply of ammunition while attached. Additionally, the
power backpack can provide energy to almost any device requiring electrical
power.

### Projectile Deflector

A defensive item that is in many ways the predecessor to the personal shield,
the projectile deflector generates a field of gravity-altering energy around
its user. Often worn as a belt or other piece of jewelry, the device actually
bends the path of incoming high-speed projectiles, making the target harder to
hit. The projectile deflector grants a +4 equipment bonus to Defense against
ranged attacks. Melee attacks are unaffected by this device.

### Sensor, Armacomp

The armacomp sensor is a hand-held computer or computerized gauntlet designed
to detect and locate weapons of all types. It grants a +6 equipment bonus on
Search checks when searching for weapons. Additionally, the armacomp sensor’s
advanced data on weapons of all types makes it a valuable resource when
repairing weapons, granting a +4 equipment bonus on all Repair checks made on
weapons. This does not include explosives and other demolitions devices, which
are covered under the democomp sensor.

### Sensor, Democomp

The democomp sensor is a hand-held computer or computerized gauntlet designed
to detect and locate explosives of all types. It grants a +6 equipment bonus
on Search checks when searching for explosives. Additionally, the democomp
sensor’s advanced data on explosives of all types makes it a valuable resource
when planting them, granting a +4 equipment bonus on all Demolitions and
Disable Device checks made involving explosives.

### Sensor, Electricomp

The electricomp sensor is a hand-held computer or computerized gauntlet
designed to detect and locate electronic devices of all types, including
computers. It grants a +6 equipment bonus on Search checks when searching for
electronics of a specific type. Additionally, the electricomp sensor’s
advanced data on electronics of all types makes it a valuable resource when
repairing computers and other electronics, granting a +4 equipment bonus on
all Repair checks made on them. Additionally, the electricomp can be used to
identify any flaws in cybernetics.

### Sensor, Mechanicomp

The mechanicomp sensor is a hand-held computer or computerized gauntlet
designed to assist in the evaluation and repairs of mechanical devices. The
mechanicomp can identify a vehicle’s, starship’s, or mecha’s current and
maximum hit points. Additionally, thanks to the mechanicomp’s extensive
library of mechanical blueprints, any repairs made using the mechanicomp as a
reference are more efficient, granting a +4 equipment bonus on all Repair
checks made to vehicles, starships, and mecha.

### Sensor, Medicomp

The mechanicomp sensor is a hand-held computer or computerized gauntlet
designed to assist in the evaluation and healing of the human body. The
medicomp can identify a creature’s current and maximum hit points.
Additionally, thanks to the medicomp’s extensive library of medical records
and biological knowledge, any treatments administered using the medicomp as a
reference are more efficient, granting a +4 equipment bonus on all Treat
Injury checks.

