---
title: Information Age Armor
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Equipment](/future.d20.srd/equipment) > Information Age Armor

## Information Age Armor

The following armors are available at PL 5 and later.


<table> <tr><th colspan="10">Table: Progress Level 5 Armor</th></tr> <tr><th>Armor</th><th>Type</th><th>Equipment Bonus</th><th>Nonprof. Bonus</th><th>Max Dex Bonus</th><th>Armor Penalty</th><th>Speed (30 ft./20 ft.)</th><th>Weight</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><th colspan="10" style="text-align: left">Light Armor</th></tr> <tr><td>Flight Suit and Helmet</td><td>Tactical</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+6</td><td>–0</td><td>30 ft./20 ft.</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>10</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><th colspan="10" style="text-align: left">Heavy Armor</th></tr> <tr><td>Land Warrior Armor</td><td>Tactical</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>–3</td><td>20 ft./15 ft.</td><td>10 lb.</td><td>20</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Space suit</td><td>Tactical</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>+0</td><td>–10</td><td>15 ft./10 ft.</td><td>50 lb.</td><td>26</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> </table>



### Flight Suit And Helmet

The flight suit and helmet combination worn by combat pilots doubles as body
armor that protects grounded pilots. The flight suit contains kevlar-lined
pouches on the chest, back, arms, legs, and abdomen, into which armor plates
are inserted. The helmet protects the head.

The armored flight suit carries over into later Progress Levels. Most military
pilots in later eras wear armored flight suits and helmets essentially the
same as this PL 5 version, though in the design appropriate to their society.

### Land Warrior Armor

The Land Warrior combat system was a major Information Age step in the ongoing
effort to increase the efficiency of the individual solder. The primary
benefits of Land Warrior armor are found in its communications and sensor
gear; each Land Warrior armor has a built-in computer that is capable of
sending and receiving text and image transmissions (via a display built into
the armor), including images captured from the scope of a linked OICW assault
rifle or TacMil sniper rifle. Additionally, the display can be linked to the
scopes on those weapons to provide real-time representations of what the scope
can see, allowing the wearer to fire around corners with ease. In addition to
the communications and data equipment, the armor functions as standard
infantry battle armor complete with bullet-resistant plating and kevlar
protective gear. The armor allows for instantaneous transmission of
coordinates and targeting information, allowing teams of Land Warrior-capable
soldiers to communicate and coordinate with ease and efficiency.

### Space Suit

The standard space suit used by NASA and other space programs is a completely
enclosed environment suit capable of sustaining life in extremes of
temperature and a lack of breathable air. The suit is large and bulky,
composed of a thick body suit and helmet with a transparent mask, all parts of
which are capable of deflecting micro-meteors and other space-borne
projectiles. Inside the suit, internal air tanks and environmental filters
maintain temperature and pressure. Additionally, a communications system not
only allows for radio transmissions to the space shuttle but also allows
internal sensors to monitor biological functions that can be observed from
mission control. The space suit is poor combat armor, but allows for movement
and action in space.

