---
title: Half-Dragon
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Shadowkind ](/arcana.d20.srd/shadowkind) > Half-Dragon

##  Half-Dragon

Size: Medium. Half-dragons have no special bonuses or penalties due to their
size.

Ability Modifiers: +8 Strength (+4 Strength if half-dragon has wings), +2
Constitution, +2 Intelligence, +2 Charisma.

Base Speed: 30 feet. Weaker half-dragons have wings and can fly 30 feet
(average maneuverability).

Natural Armor Bonus: Half-dragons have scaly hides and gain a +4 natural armor
bonus to Defense.

Natural Weapons (Bite, Claw): A half-dragon can replace an unarmed attack with
a bite attack (1d3 points of lethal piercing damage) or claw attack (1d3
points of lethal slashing damage). Using natural weapons to deal lethal damage
does not provoke attacks of opportunity. Feats such as Combat Martial Arts may
increase the amount of damage dealt.

Breath Weapon: A half-dragon can use its breath weapon once per day. A half-
dragon may also spend an action point to use its breath weapon, but each extra
use of its breath weapon costs 1 action point. The type of breath weapon
depends on the color of the half-dragon, as shown in Table: Half-Dragons. The
save DC against the halfdragon’s breath weapon equals 10 + 1/2 the half-
dragon’s character level (rounded down) + the half-dragon’s Constitution
modifier.

Low-Light Vision: Half-dragons can see twice as far as a human in starlight,
moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They
retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

Darkvision: Half-dragon humans can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision
is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and half-
dragon humans can function with no light at all.

Immunities: Half-dragons are immune to sleep, paralysis, and one type of
energy (see Table 1–5: Half-Dragons).

Free Language Skills: Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any one),
Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any one).

Other Languages: Any Shadow or Earth-based languages.

Level Adjustment: +3.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="3"> Table: Half-Dragons </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Type </th> <th> Breath Weapon <sup> 1 <sup> </sup> </sup> </th> <th> Energy Immunity </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Black </td> <td> 60-foot line of acid (6d4 points of acid damage; Reflex half) </td> <td> Acid </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Blue </td> <td> 60-foot line of electricity (6d8 points of electricity damage; Reflex half) </td> <td> Electricity </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Brass </td> <td> 30-foot cone of sleep gas (fall asleep for 1d6 rounds; Will negates) </td> <td> Fire <sup> 2 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Bronze </td> <td> 30-foot cone of repulsion gas (move away for 1d6 rounds; Will negates) </td> <td> Electricity </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Copper </td> <td> 30-foot cone of slow gas (slowed, as the spell, for 1d6 rounds; Will negates) </td> <td> Acid </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Gold </td> <td> 30-foot cone of weaknening gas (1d2 temporary Str damage; Fortitude negates) </td> <td> Fire <sup> 2 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Green </td> <td> 30-foot cone of corrosive gas (6d6 points of acid damage; Reflex half) </td> <td> Acid </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Red </td> <td> 30-foot cone of fire (6d10 points of fire damage; Reflex half) </td> <td> Fire <sup> 2 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Silver </td> <td> 30-foot cone of paralyzing gas (paralyzed for 1d6 rounds; Fortitude negates) </td> <td> Cold <sup> 3 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> White </td> <td> 30-foot cone of cold (6d6 points of cold damage; Reflex half) </td> <td> Cold <sup> 3 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr> <td colspan="3" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> <p> <sup> 1 </sup> All lines are 5 feet high, 5 feet wide, and 60 feet long. All cones are 30 feet long and 30 feet wide at the base. <br/> <sup> 2 </sup> Dragons with fire immunity take 50% more damage against cold-based attacks. <br/> <sup> 3 </sup> Dragons with cold immunity take 50% more damage against fire-based attacks. </p> </td> </tr> </table>



