---
title: Baleful Polymorph
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Transmutation

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 41, 6 successes, and Knowledge (earth
and life sciences), 1 success; Failure: Two consecutive failed skill checks;
Components: V, S, M, F, SC; Casting Time: 70 minutes (minimum); Range: Touch;
Target: Helpless creature touched; Duration: Permanent; Saving Throw:
Fortitude negates (DC 17 + casterâ€™s Cha modifier) and see text; Spell
Resistance: Yes

As the polymorph incantation, except that you change the subject into a Small
or smaller animal of no more than 1 HD (such as a dog, lizard, monkey, toad,
or viper). If the new form would prove fatal to the creature (such as
polymorphing a landbound target into a fish), the subject gets a +4 bonus on
the save. If the incantation succeeds, the target must also make a Will save.
If this second save fails, the creature gains the Intelligence, Wisdom, and
Charisma scores of its new form. It still retains its class and level, hit
points, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, allegiances, extraordinary
abilities, supernatural abilities, and spell-like abilities, as well as any
spellcasting ability possessed.

Note that incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to being polymorphed,
and a shapeshifter (such as a werewolf) can revert to its natural form as a
move action.

Material Component: Laboratory equipment and alchemical supplies (purchase DC
25).

Focus: Part of the kind of creature that the target will turn into, such as a
hair, scale, or feather. If you have a living, helpless creature that can
serve as a model for the target creature, you gain a +2 bonus on the Knowledge
(arcane lore) checks required for this incantation.

Secondary Casters: 12 required (not including the primary caster).

Failure: Reversal on all secondary casters, using the same saving throw DC.

