---
title: Body Double
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Incantations ](/arcana.d20.srd/incantations) > Body Double

##  Body Double

Conjuration (Creation)

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 39, 6 successes (and see text) and
Disguise DC 39, 1 success; Failure: Two consecutive failed skill checks;
Components: V, S, M (see text), XP; Casting Time: 7 hours (minimum); Range:
Touch; Effect: One duplicate creature; Duration: 12 days; Saving Throw: None;
Spell Resistance: No

The body double incantation creates a duplicate of any creature formed from
mystic clay, with alchemical blood and an eldritch life of its own. At first
glance, the duplicate appears to be exactly the same as the creature you
modeled it after, but there are differences: The body double has only half the
level or Hit Dice (which affects its skills, feats, and class features). It
has the surface mannerisms and personality of the real creature, but its
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores are all 5. Creatures familiar with
the original might detect the ruse with a successful Spot check. You must make
a Disguise check when you cast the incantation to determine how good the
likeness is, and this Disguise check sets the DC for Spot checks (to notice
imperfections in the duplication) and Sense Motive checks (to discern that the
body double is behaving oddly).

At all times the body double remains under your absolute command. No special
telepathic link exists, so command must be exercised in some other manner. The
body double has no ability to become more powerful. It cannot earn experience
points. If destroyed, it reverts to clay and melts into a vaguely humanoid
lump within 1 minute. The body double doesn’t naturally heal and responds to
neither conventional medicine nor natural healing. A complex process requiring
at least one day, materials (purchase DC 5 + 1 per hit point), and a fully
equipped magical laboratory can repair damage to the body double.

Material Component: The spell is cast over an elaborate clay simulacrum of the
creature to be duplicated, and some piece of the creature (a hair or
fingernail, for instance) must be placed within the clay. Additionally, the
incantation requires rare earths and unguents (purchase DC 30).

XP Cost: 1,000 XP.

Failure: Betrayal. The body double has allegiances opposite the original
creature and a pathological hatred of both the original creature and the
caster. Furthermore, the body double isn’t under the command of the caster,
although it may play along for a while while it learns about its new enemies.

