---
title: Cast into Shadow
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Incantations ](/arcana.d20.srd/incantations) > Cast into Shadow

##  Cast into Shadow

Abjuration

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 33, 6 successes (see text); Failure:
Two consecutive failed skill checks; Components: V, S, M, XP, B; Casting Time:
1 hour (minimum); Range: 55 ft.; Target: One or more outsiders, no two of
which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: Permanent; Saving Throw:
Fortitude negates (DC 17 + caster’s Cha modifier) and see text; Spell
Resistance: Yes

The cast into Shadow incantation enables you to force outsiders (usually, but
not always, fiends) away from the world you know, trapping them in some
distant dimension. Up to 2 HD of creatures per caster level can be sent away
in this fashion.

To target a creature, you must present at least one object or substance that
it hates, fears, or otherwise opposes.

If you successfully overcome the target’s spell resistance, and the target
fails its save, the target disappears. In general, targets never find their
way back from beyond Shadow—or if they do, they don’t remember their previous
time here.

Options: If the target or targets are all helpless, the DC for the incantation
is reduced by –6. At the GM’s option, certain rare items might work twice as
well (each providing +2 against spell resistance and +4 on the spell’s DC).

Material Component: An object the creature hates, fears, or opposes.
Discovering such an item may require a Research check.

Experience Point Cost: 1,000 XP.

Backlash: Caster is exhausted.

Failure: Attack from an outsider of the same allegiance. The attacking
outsider has a Challenge Rating equal to the average party level +1. It
attacks the caster within a few rounds of the incantation’s failure. It has
been brought to this world by the failed incantation, so it may retreat and
try to make a home for itself here. It will always bear a grudge against the
caster for bringing it here, however, and it is a potential source of later
mischief.

