---
title: Casting an Incantation
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
At its core, casting an incantation means having the required incantation
components, then succeeding at a number of Knowledge (arcane lore) checks
during the incantation’s casting time. Each incantation lists how many
Knowledge (arcane lore) checks are required to cast the incantation
successfully.

Unless otherwise specified, the caster makes Knowledge (arcane lore) checks
every 10 minutes. Failing a Knowledge (arcane lore) check doesn’t mean that
the entire incantation is a failure, just that the previous 10 minutes have
been wasted. However, if you fail two Knowledge (arcane lore) checks in a row,
the incantation immediately fails. The consequences for failure are detailed
in the description of the specific incantation. Even if the incantation fails,
material components and experience points are still lost and the backlash
still takes effect.

###  Incantation Components

Most incantations require components not unlike spells, including verbal,
somatic, focus, and material components. In addition, some require secondary
casters (abbreviated SC), cause some sort of backlash (abbreviated B), or cost
the caster some experience points (abbreviated XP).

###  Secondary Casters

Some incantations require multiple participants to cast successfully. These
secondary casters (abbreviated SC) are indispensable to the success of the
spell. No matter how many people are gathered in the dark room, chanting with
candles, only one character—generally the one with the highest Knowledge
(arcane lore) check—is the primary caster who’ll make the relevant checks.
Secondary casters can’t help the primary caster with the Aid Another rules,
but their presence is required for certain aspects of the ritual nonetheless.
If an incantation requires some other skill check, any of the secondary
casters can make that check if they have a higher bonus than the primary
caster. Even if you’re not a required caster of the spell, you can step in and
make the non-Knowledge check if you’re better at the relevant skill than the
actual caster.

###  Backlash

Some spells damage or drain the caster in some way. They have a backlash
component, generally damage, negative levels, or some other condition. The
caster takes the backlash regardless of the success or failure of the spell.

###  Saves and Spell Resistance

If the incantation allows a save, the formula to calculate it is included in
the spell’s description. For checks to overcome spell resistance, divide the
incantation’s Knowledge (arcane lore) DC by 2 to get the effective caster
level for the spell resistance check.

###  Incantations as Spell-Like Abilities

Some creatures have spell-like abilities that duplicate the effects of
incantations. There’s no chance of failure and no backlash for such spell-like
abilities, which don’t require components of any kind and take only an attack
action to activate.

