---
title: Failed Incantations
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Incantations ](/arcana.d20.srd/incantations) > Failed Incantations

##  Failed Incantations

Each incantation has its own consequences for failure (two failed skill checks
in a row). In general, they can be divided into the following categories.
Attack: A creature is called from elsewhere to battle the caster (and often
any bystanders and secondary casters). The incantation’s description tells the
GM what Challenge Rating the creature should have, how it behaves, and how
long it persists.

Augment: The incantation was supposed to weaken or destroy its target, but it
makes it more powerful instead. A damaging spell might heal its target or
cause it to grow in size, for example.

Betrayal: The incantation seemingly succeeds, but the subject of the
incantation (or in rare cases the caster) loses all allegiances and gains
their opposites. In general, the subject now hates all it loved before the
incantation. The subject may keep its new allegiances a secret. Whenever a
character attempts an incantation with a chance of betrayal failure, the GM
should make the relevant die rolls in secret.

Damage: The simplest consequence of failure, damage is dealt to the caster or
the target, depending on the incantation.

Death: Someone—usually the caster or the target—dies. Depending on the
incantation, a successful saving throw may avoid the effect of failure.

Delusion: The caster believes the incantation had the desired effect, but in
fact it had no effect or a very different one.

Falsehood: Common with divinations, the incantation delivers false results to
the caster, but the caster believes the results are true. Whenever a character
attempts an incantation with a chance of falsehood failure, the GM should make
the relevant die rolls in secret.

Hostile Spell: The caster of the incantation is targeted by a harmful spell or
incantation. The spell description specifies the specific spell or
incantation, save DC, and so on.

Mirrorcast: The spell has the opposite effect of that intended.

Reversal: The spell targets the caster, rather than the intended target of the
incantation.

