---
title: Seed Dispel
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Incantations ](/arcana.d20.srd/incantations) > Seed: Dispel

##  Seed: Dispel

Abjuration

Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: 30; Range: Medium; Target: One creature or object;
Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No You can end
ongoing spells and incantations that have been cast on a creature or object,
temporarily suppress the magical abilities of a magic item, or end ongoing
spells and incantations (or at least their effects) within an area. A
dispelled spell ends as if its duration had expired. The dispel seed can
defeat all spells, even those not normally subject to dispel magic.

The dispel seed can dispel (but not counter) the ongoing effects of
supernatural abilities as well as spells, and it affects spell-like effects
just as it affects spells.

One object, creature, or spell is the target of the dispel seed. You make a
dispel check against the spell or against each ongoing spell currently in
effect on the object or crea- ture. A dispel check is 1d20 + 10 against a DC
of 11 + the target spell’s caster level. For each additional +1 on your dispel
check, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1.

If you target an object or creature that is the effect of an ongoing spell
(such as a vivilor summoned by a summon vivilor spell), make a dispel check to
end the spell that conjured the object or creature.

If the object you target is a magic item, you make a dispel check against the
item’s caster level. If you succeed, all the item’s magical properties are
suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers on its own. A
suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the effect. An
extradimensional space targeted by the dispel is destroyed, and anything
within it is instantly ejected. A magic item’s physical properties are
unchanged.

You automatically succeed at your dispel check against any spell that you cast
yourself.

