---
title: Seed: Reveal
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Incantations ](/arcana.d20.srd/incantations) > Seed: Reveal

##  Seed: Reveal

Divination

Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: 30; Range: See text; Effect: Magical sensor;
Duration: Minutes (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No

You can hear or see some distant location almost as if you were there. To both
hear and see, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. Distance is
not a factor, but the locale must be knownâ€”a place familiar to you or an
obvious one (such as behind a door, around a corner, or in a grove of trees).
The incantation creates an invisible sensor, similar to that created by a
scrying spell, that can be dispelled. Lead sheeting or magical protection
(such as nondetection) blocks the incantation, and you sense that the
incantation is so blocked.

If you prefer to create a mobile (speed 30 feet) sensor that you control,
increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. To allow magically
enhanced senses to work through an incantation built with the reveal seed,
increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4.

To cast any spell whose range is Touch or greater from the sensor instead of
you, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6; however, you must
maintain line of effect to the sensor at all times. If your line of effect is
obstructed, the incantation ends.

Increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6 if you use the reveal seed
to pierce illusions and see things as they really are. You can see through
normal and magical darkness, notice secret doors hidden by magic, see the
exact locations of creatures or objects under blur or displacement effects,
see invisible creatures or objects normally, see through illusions, and see
the true form of polymorphed, changed, or transmuted things. The range of such
sight is 120 feet. The reveal seed cannot identify creatures or objects within
extradimensional spaces.

