---
title: Seed: Ward
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Incantations ](/arcana.d20.srd/incantations) > Seed: Ward

##  Seed: Ward

Abjuration

Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: 30; Range: Touch; Target: Creature or object of
1,000 lbs. or less touched; or 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on
you; Duration: Hours (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes

You can grant a creature protection from damage of a specified type. You can
protect a creature from standard damage or from energy damage. You can protect
a creature or area from magic. Alternatively, you can hedge out a type of
creature from a specified area.

A ward against standard damage protects a creature from two of the following
damage types: ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing. For a ward
against all types, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4. Each
round, the incantation created with the ward seed absorbs the first 5 points
of damage the creature would otherwise take, regardless of whether the source
of the damage is natural or magical. For each additional point of protection,
increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.

A ward against energy grants a creature protection from whichever one you
select of the five energy types: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or
sonic/concussion. Each round, the incantation absorbs the first 5 points of
damage the creature would otherwise take from the specified energy type,
regardless of whether the source of damage is natural or magical. The
incantation protects the recipientâ€™s equipment as well. For each additional
point of protection, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1.

A ward against a specific type of creature prevents bodily contact from
whichever one of several monster types you select. This causes the natural
weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such
attacks require touching the warded creature. The protection ends if the
warded creature makes an attack against or intentionally moves within 5 feet
of the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome
this protection and touch the warded creature.

A ward against magic creates an immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere
(with radius 10 feet) that surrounds you and excludes all spell effects of up
to 1st level. Alternatively, you can ward just the target and not create the
radius effect. For each additional level of spells to be excluded, increase
the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6. The area or effect of any such
spells does not include the area of the ward, and such spells fail to affect
any target within the ward. This includes spell-like abilities and spells or
spell-like effects from magic items. However, any type of spell can be cast
through or out of the ward. You can leave and return to the protected area
without penalty (unless the incantation specifically targets a creature and
does not provide a radius effect).

Instead of creating an incantation that uses the ward seed to nullify all
spells of a given and lower level, you can create a ward that nullifies a
specific spell (or specific set of spells). For each specific spell so
nullified, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by only +1 per spell
level above 1st. For example, if you want to create an incantation that
protects you specifically against charm person and dominate, the Knowledge
(arcane lore) check DC would increase by +0 and +4, respectively.

The ward could be brought down by a targeted dispel magic spell. Incantations
using the dispel seed may bring down a ward if the enemy spellcaster succeeds
at a caster level check.

