---
title: Seed Energy
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Evocation [Acid, Fire, Electricity, Cold, or Sonic/Concussion]

Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: 30; Range: Medium, or touched creature or object
of up to 2,000 lbs.; Area: A bolt 5 ft. wide to 300 ft. long; or 5-ft.-radius
emanation; or a wall whose area is up to one 200-ft. square; or a sphere or
hemisphere with a radius of up to 20 ft.; Duration: Instantaneous or hours;
Saving Throw: Reflex half; Spell Resistance: Yes

You can work with whichever one of five energy types you choose: acid, cold,
electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion. You can cast the energy forth as a
bolt, imbue an object with the energy, or create a freestanding manifestation
of the energy.

If your incantation developed using the energy seed releases a bolt, that bolt
instantaneously deals 10d6 points of damage of the appropriate energy type,
and all creatures in bolt’s area must make a Reflex save for half damage. For
each additional 1d6 points of damage dealt, increase the Knowledge (arcane
lore) check DC by +2. The bolt begins at your fingertips.

If you wish to imbue another creature with the ability to use an energy bolt
as a spell-like ability at its option or when a particular condition is met,
increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +12.

You can also cause a creature or object to emanate the specific energy type to
a radius of 10 feet. The emanated energy deals 2d6 points of energy damage per
round against unprotected creatures (the target creature is susceptible if not
separately warded or otherwise resistant to the energy). For each additional
1d6 points of damage emanated, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC
by +2.

You may also create a wall, half-circle, circle, dome, or sphere of the
desired energy that emanates the energy. One side of the wall, selected by
you, sends forth waves of energy, dealing 2d4 points of energy damage to
creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of energy damage to those past 10 feet
but within 20 feet. The wall deals this damage when it appears and each round
that a creature enters or remains in the area. In addition, the wall deals 6d6
points of energy damage to any creature passing through it. The wall deals
double damage to undead creatures, provided the undead creature is not immune
to the selected energy type. For each additional 1d6 points of damage,
increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.

You can also use the energy seed to create an incantation that carefully
releases and balances the emanation of cold, electricity, and fire, creating
specific weather effects for a period of 24 hours. Using the energy seed this
way has a base Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC of 34. The area extends to a
two-mile-radius centered on you. Once the incantation is cast, the weather
takes 10 minutes to manifest.

With the base use, you can’t directly target a creature or object, though
indirect effects are possible. But you can create cold snaps, heat waves,
thunderstorms, fogs, blizzards —even a tornado that moves randomly in the
affected area. Creating targeted damaging effects requires an additional use
of the energy seed.

