---
title: Seed Transform
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Incantations ](/arcana.d20.srd/incantations) > Seed: Transform

##  Seed: Transform

Transmutation

Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: 32; Range: Close; Target: One creature or
inanimate, nonmagical object; Duration: Hours; Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
(and see text); Spell Resistance: Yes

Incantations using the transform seed change the subject into another form of
creature or object. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size
larger than the subject’s normal form. If you want transform a creature into a
nonmagical, inanimate object, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by
+10. If you want to change a creature of one type into another type (for
example, undead to outsider), increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by
+5. Transformations involving nonmagical inanimate substances with hardness
are more difficult; for each 2 points of hardness, increase the Knowledge
(arcane lore) check DC by +1.

The transform seed can also change its target into someone specific. To
transform an object or creature into the specific likeness of another
individual, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6. If the
transformed creature doesn’t have the level or Hit Dice of its new likeness,
it can only use the abilities of the creature at its own level or Hit Dice.

If slain or destroyed, the transformed creature or object reverts to its
original form. The subject’s equipment, if any, remains untransformed. The
transformed creature or object acquires the physical and natural abilities of
the creature or object it has been changed into while retaining its own mind
and mental ability scores. Mental abilities include personality, Intelligence,
Wisdom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change
in its Constitution score), alignment, base attack bonus, base saves,
extraordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not its
supernatural abilities. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength,
Dexterity, and Constitution scores. Natural abilities include armor, natural
weapons, and similar gross physical qualities (presence or absence of wings,
number of extremities, etc.), and possibly hardness. Creatures transformed
into inanimate objects do not gain the benefit of their untransformed physical
abilities, and may well be blind, deaf, dumb, and unfeeling.

The transformed subject can have no more Hit Dice than you have or that the
subject has (whichever is greater). In any case, for each Hit Die the assumed
form has above 15 HD, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.

