---
title: Sigil of Lyssa
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 35, 7 successes (and see text);
Failure: Two consecutive failed skill checks; Components: V, S, M, XP; Casting
Time: 70 minutes (minimum); Range: Touch; Effect: 60 ft. burst centered on
magic rune (see text); Duration: 16 minutes (and see text); Saving Throw: Will
negates (DC 18 + caster’s Charisma modifier); Spell Resistance: Yes

As the sigil of Algos incantation, except that the rune causes creatures
within 60 feet of the rune (treat as a burst) to go temporarily insane if they
fail their Will saves. Creatures affected by this spell behave randomly for
the next 16 hours, as indicated on the following table:


<table> <tr> <th> 1d10 </th> <th> Behavior </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1 </td> <td> Wander away for 1 minute (unless prevented) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2–6 </td> <td> Do nothing for 1 round </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7–9 </td> <td> Attack nearest creature for 1 round </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10 </td> <td> Act normally for 1 round </td> </tr> </table>



Except on a result of 1, roll again each round on the creature’s turn to see
what the subject does that round. Wandering creatures leave the scene as if
disinterested. Attackers are not at any special advantage when attacking them.
Behavior is checked at the beginning of each creature’s turn. Any confused
creature that is attacked automatically attacks its attackers on its next
turn. Remove curse won’t end the insanity, but a break enchantment spell or
heal incantation will.

Once triggered, the symbol becomes active and glows, lasting for 16 minutes.
Any creature that enters the area while the sigil of Lyssa is active is
subject to its effects, whether or not that creature was in the area when it
was triggered. A creature need only save against the symbol once as long as it
remains within the area, though if it leaves the area and returns while the
symbol is still active, it must save again.

Read magic allows you to identify a sigil of Lyssa with a successful
Spellcraft check (DC 18). Of course, if the sigil of Algos is set to be
triggered by reading it, this will trigger the symbol.

Note: Magic traps such as sigil of Lyssa are hard to detect and disable.
Characters can use the Search skill to find a sigil of Lyssa and Disable
Device to thwart it. The DC in each case is 33.

Material Component: Rare alchemical paints and herbs (purchase DC 25).

Experience Point Cost: 700 XP.

Failure: Reversal. The sigil affects anyone, including the caster and any
bystanders, who looks at it or reads it.

