---
title: Enchantment (Compulsion)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 32, 6 successes; Failure: Two
consecutive failed skill checks; Components: V, S, M, XP; Casting Time: 60
minutes (minimum); Range: Touch; Effect: 60 ft. burst centered on magic rune
(see text); Duration: 12 minutes (and see text); Saving Throw: Will negates
(DC 16 + caster’s Charisma modifier); Spell Resistance: Yes

This incantation, named after the Greek god of pain, allows you to scribe a
potent rune of power upon a surface. When triggered, the sigil of Algos causes
one or more creatures within 60 feet of the rune (treat as a burst) to suffer
wracking pain if they fail a Fortitude save. The pain imposes a –4 penalty on
attack rolls, skill checks, and saving throws. These effects last for 12 hours
after the creature leaves the area of the spell.

Once triggered, the symbol becomes active and glows, lasting for 12 minutes.
Any creature who enters the area while the sigil of Algos is active is subject
to its effects, whether or not that creature was in the area when it was
triggered. A creature need only save against the symbol once as long as it
remains within the area, though if it leaves the area and returns while the
symbol is still active, it must save again.

Until it is triggered, the sigil of Algos is inactive (though visible and
legible at a range of up to 60 feet). To be effective, a sigil of Algos must
always be placed in plain sight and in a prominent location. Covering or
hiding the rune renders it ineffective (unless a creature removes the
covering, in which case the sigil of Algos works normally).

As a default, a sigil of Algos is triggered whenever a creature does one or
more of the following, as you select: looks at the rune; reads the rune;
touches the rune; passes over the rune; or passes through a portal bearing the
rune. Regardless of the trigger method or methods chosen, a creature more than
60 feet from a sigil of Algos can’t trigger it (even if they meet one or more
of the triggering conditions, such as reading it). Once the incantation is
complete, the triggering conditions cannot be changed.

In this case, “reading” the rune means any attempt to study it, identify it,
or fathom its meaning. Throwing a cover over a sigil of Algos to render it
inoperative triggers it if it reacts to touch. You can’t use a sigil of Algos
offensively; for instance, a touch-triggered rune remains untriggered if an
item bearing the sigil of Algos is used to touch a creature. Likewise, a sigil
of Algos cannot be placed on a weapon and set to activate when the weapon
strikes a foe.

You can also set special triggering limitations of your own. These can be as
simple or elaborate as you desire. Special conditions for triggering a sigil
of Algos can be based on a creature’s name, identity, or allegiances, but
otherwise must be based on observable actions or qualities. Intangibles such
as level, class, Hit Dice, and hit points don’t qualify.

When scribing a sigil of Algos, you can specify a password or phrase that
prevents a creature using it from triggering the rune. Anyone using the
password remains immune to that particular rune’s effects so long as the
character remains within 60 feet of the sigil of Algos. If the character
leaves the radius and returns later, he must use the password again. You also
can attune any number of creatures to the sigil of Algos, but doing this can
extend the casting time. Attuning one or two creatures takes negligible time,
and attuning a small group (up to ten creatures) extends the casting time by 1
hour. Attuning a large group (up to 25 creatures) takes one day. Attuning
larger groups takes proportionately longer, as the GM sees fit. Any creature
attuned to a sigil of Algos cannot trigger it and is immune to its effects,
even if within its radius when triggered. You are automatically considered
attuned to your own sigils, and thus always ignore the effects and cannot
inadvertently trigger them.

Read magic allows you to identify a sigil of Algos with a successful
Spellcraft check (DC 16). Of course, if the sigil of Algos is set to be
triggered by reading it, this will trigger the symbol.

The sigil of Algos can be removed by a successful dispel magic targeted solely
on the rune. A clean spell has no effect on a sigil of Algos. Destruction of
the surface where a sigil of Algos is inscribed destroys the rune but also
triggers its effects.

Note: Magic traps such as sigil of Algos are hard to detect and disable.
Characters can use the Search skill to find a sigil of Algos and the Disable
Device skill to thwart it. The DC in each case is 31.

Material Component: Rare alchemical paints and herbs (purchase DC 20).

Experience Point Cost: 500 XP.

Failure: Reversal. The sigil affects anyone, including the caster and any
bystanders, who looks at it or reads it.

