---
title: Fleshraker (Knife Fiend)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Bonus Feat: A fleshraker gains Archaic Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.

Damage Reduction 10/Ballistic (Ex): A fleshraker ignores the first 10 points
of damage dealt by any nonballistic weapon.

Death Hunger (Ex): A fleshraker that goes 24 hours without killing a human
suffers 1d4 points of Constitution damage. This damage cannot be restored
until the fleshraker kills a human, at which point the ability damage heals
normally.

Fire Resistance 20 (Ex): A fleshraker ignores the first 20 points of damage
from any attack that deals fire damage.

Immunities (Ex): A fleshraker is immune to slashing and piercing weapons.

Wounding Weapon (Su): Any slashing weapon wielded by a fleshraker can inflict
terrible wounds that bleed profusely. In addition to the normal damage the
weapon deals, the target takes 1 point of damage that round and each
subsequent round from bleeding. Multiple wounds from a wounding weapon result
in cumulative bleeding loss (two wounds for 2 points of damage per round, and
so on). A successful Treat Injury check (DC 15) or the application of any cure
spell stops the bleeding. The weapon does not retain this ability outside the
grasp of a knife fiend, although any bleeding wounds it has inflicted continue
to bleed if the fleshraker is disarmed.

Fleshraker (knife fiend): CR 3; Medium-size outsider; HD 4d8+8; hp 26; Mas 14;
Init +4; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 24, touch 14, flat-footed 20 (+4 Dex, +9 natural,
+1 leather jacket); BAB +4; Grap +5; Atk +9 melee (1d4+1/19–20, knife); Full
Atk +9 melee (1d4+1/19–20, knife) or +9 ranged (1d4+1/19–20, knife); FS 5 ft.
by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ damage reduction 10/ballistic, darkvision 60 ft.,
fire resistance 20, immunities, wounding weapon; AL evil, chaos; SV Fort +6,
Ref +8, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10.

Skills: Balance +8, Bluff +4, Disguise +4, Escape Artist +8, Hide +8,
Knowledge (arcane lore) +6, Knowledge (behavioral science) +6, Listen +5, Move
Silently +8, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write English, Read/Write Latin, Speak
English, Speak Abyssal, Speak Latin, Spot +5.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Finesse
(knife), Weapon Focus (knife).

Possessions: Leather jacket, casual outfit, hat, 12 knives.

Advancement: By character class.

Fleshraker Fast Hero 3: CR 6; Medium-size outsider; HD 4d8+8 plus 3d8+4; hp
43; Mas 14; Init +8; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 28, touch 21, flat-footed 24 (+4 Dex,
+9 natural, +4 class, +1 leather jacket); BAB +6; Grap +5; Atk +11 melee
(1d4+1/19–20, knife); Full Atk +11/+6 melee (1d4+1/19–20, knife) or +11/+6
ranged (1d4+1/19–20, knife); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ damage
reduction 10/ballistic, darkvision 60 ft., death hunger, fire resistance 20,
immunities, wounding weapon; AL evil, chaos; SV Fort +6, Ref +11, Will +6; AP
1; Rep +1; Str 12, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10.

Skills: Balance +10, Bluff +7, Disguise +7, Escape Artist +10, Hide +11,
Knowledge (arcane lore) +6, Knowledge (behavioral science) +6, Listen +6, Move
Silently +11, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write English, Read/Write Latin, Speak
English, Speak Abyssal, Speak Latin, Spot +6.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Simple Weapons
Proficiency, Weapon Finesse (knife), Weapon Focus (knife). Talents (Fast
Hero): Evasion, uncanny dodge 1.

Possessions: Leather jacket, casual outfit, hat, 12 knives.

