---
title: Kwevencha (Spider Fiend)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Damage Reduction 5/Silver (Ex): A kwevencha ignores the first 5 points of
damage dealt by any unsilvered weapon.

Immunities (Ex): A kwevencha is immune to poison.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the kwevencha must hit a Small or
Medium-size creature with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it deals
automatic damage with its bite on subsequent rounds.

Monstrous Spider Minions: A kwevencha has 2d6 Tiny monstrous spiders clinging
to its body. It can telepathically command these spiders to attack, but the
kwevencha must remain within 100 feet of the monstrous spiders to
telepathically control them.

Poison (Ex): Bite; contact 1d6 Str/1d6 Str; Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the
kwevencha’s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) resists.

Spit Poison (Ex): A kwevencha can shoot a 20-foot-long line of poisonous
spittle at a single target. The save DC and effects of the poison are
described above.

Stability (Ex): A kwevencha gains a +4 stability bonus on checks to resist
trip and bull rush attacks.

Telepathy (Su): A kwevencha can communicate telepathically with any creature
within 100 feet that has a language.

Web Cocoon (Ex): A kwevencha uses a spinneret in its abdomen to weave web
cocoons around creatures incapacitated by its poison. A creature trapped
inside the cocoon is immobile, although breathing is possible through the
porous webbing. A kwevencha’s web cocoon has 20 hit points and a break DC of
26. Dealing damage to the web cocoon deals a like amount of damage to the
creature trapped inside.

Skill Bonuses: A kwevencha gains a +4 species bonus on Balance, Climb, Jump,
and Spot checks.

Kwevencha (spider fiend): CR 7; Large outsider; HD 8d8+24; hp 60; Mas 20; Init
+0; Spd 30 ft., climb 30 ft.; Defense 23 (–1 size, +14 natural), touch 10,
flat-footed 23; BAB +8; Grap +18; Atk +13 melee (1d8+6 plus poison, bite) or
+7 ranged touch (poison spittle); Full Atk +13 melee (1d8+6 plus poison, bite)
and +8 melee (1d6+3, 2 claws) or +7 ranged touch (poison spittle); FS 10 ft.
by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Damage reduction 5/silver, darkvision 60 ft.,
immunities, improved grab, monstrous spider minions, poison (DC 17), spit
poison, telepathy, web cocoon; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +7; AP
0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 11, Con 17, Int 8, Wis 13, Cha 12.

Skills: Balance +11, Climb +17, Hide +3, Intimidate +8, Jump +13, Listen +8,
Move Silently +7, Read/Write Abyssal, Speak Abyssal, Spot +12.

Feats: Improved Damage Threshold, Iron Will.

Advancement: 9–14 HD (Large); 15–21 HD (Huge); or by character class.

