---
title: Murdergaunt (Whistling Fiend)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > [ Fiend](/menaces.d20/menaces/fiend) > Murdergaunt (Whistling Fiend)

##  Murdergaunt (Whistling Fiend)

Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Ex): A murdergaunt ignores the first 10 points of
damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the
GM can either disregard the fiend’s damage reduction or apply it only to
certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or
sonic/concussion).

Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): A murdergaunt ignores the first 10 points of damage
from any attack that deals fire damage.

Immunities (Ex): A murdergaunt is immune to sonic and concussion damage.

Impale (Ex): A murdergaunt that hits with one of its armspikes may choose to
impale its opponent. An impaled opponent takes armspike damage each round it
remains impaled (on the murdergaunt’s turn). An impaled creature must tear
free of the serrated armspike to move to another square, taking 1d6 points of
damage in the process. A murdergaunt must tear its armspike from an impaled
opponent to move to another square or to free the limb; pulling free the
armspike deals an automatic 1d6 points of damage to the impaled creature, but
the murdergaunt cannot use the newly freed armspike to attack that round.

A murdergaunt can impale two Medium-size or smaller creatures at the same
time; however, it cannot make an attack (or attack of opportunity) with an
armspike that is currently impaling a foe.

Telepathy (Su): A murdergaunt can communicate telepathically with any creature
within 100 feet that has a language.

Whistle (Su): A murdergaunt can whistle as a free action every round.
Creatures within 120 feet who can hear the murdergaunt’s horrid tune must make
a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the murdergaunt’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier).

Any creature that fails its Will save cowers until the whistling stops. A
cowering creature is frozen in fear, loses its Dexterity bonus, and can take
no actions. In addition, a cowering creature takes a –2 penalty to Defense.

A creature that saves against the murdergaunt’s whistle cannot be affected by
the same murdergaunt’s whistle for 24 hours. The save DC for the whistle is
Charisma-based.

Murdergaunt (whistling fiend): CR 9; Large outsider; HD 9d8+27; hp 67; Mas 17;
Init +3; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 25 (–1 size, +2 Dex, +14 natural),
touch 11, flat-footed 23; BAB +9; Grap +17; Atk +13 melee (1d6+5, armspike);
Full Atk +13 melee (1d6+5, 2 armspikes) or +12 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 10 ft.; SQ Damage reduction 10/+1, darkvision 60 ft., fire resistance
10, immune to sonic/concussion damage, impale, telepathy, whistle (DC 16); AL
evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +9, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 16, Con 16, Int
13, Wis 13, Cha 15.

Skills: Balance +12, Climb +13, Escape Artist +12, Hide +14, Jump +13, Listen
+10, Move Silently +14, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write Language (any one),
Speak Abyssal, Speak Language (any one), Spot +10, Tumble +12.

Feats: Agile Riposte, Dodge, Stealthy.

Advancement: By character class.

