---
title: Stygilor (Tumor Fiend)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Damage Reduction 5/Piercing (Ex): A stygilor ignores the first 5 points of
damage dealt by any nonpiercing weapon.

Disease Sense (Ex): A stygilor can sense whether a creature is infected with a
disease merely by being within 10 feet of it. It cannot sense nannite
infection (see the “Etoile” entry for details).

Frightful Presence (Ex): A stygilor can use the Frightful Presence feat once
per round as a free action. All creatures within 10 feet that can see the
stygilor and have fewer levels or Hit Dice than the stygilor must succeed at a
Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the stygilor’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or
take a –2 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, and skill checks for 1d6+2
rounds. A successful save grants immunity to the stygilor’s frightful presence
for 24 hours. Creatures with an Intelligence of 3 or lower are unaffected.
This is a mind-affecting ability.

Immune to Disease (Ex): A stygilor is immune to diseases of all sorts.

Invisibility (Sp): A stygilor can use invisibility at will (caster level 6th)
as an attack action. It often uses this ability to move through hospital wards
unseen.

Telepathy (Su): A stygilor can communicate telepathically with any creature
within 100 feet that has a language.

Wounding Gaze (Su): As a free action, a stygilor can fix its gaze upon a
single creature within 30 feet. The target must succeed at a Will save (DC 10
+ 1/2 the stygilor’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or take 1d4+2 points of
damage, as though struck by one of the stygilor’s horrible claws. The target
need not be looking at the stygilor, and wounds inflicted by this attack leave
nasty scars once healed. This is a mind-affecting ability. The save DC is
Charisma-based.

Stygilor (tumor fiend): CR 4; Medium-size outsider; HD 6d8+12; hp 39; Mas 18;
Init –1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 18 (–1 size, +9 natural), touch 9, flat-footed
18; BAB +6; Grap +8; Atk +8 melee (1d4+2, claw); Full Atk +8 melee (1d4+2, 2
claws) and +3 melee (1d6+1, bite) or +5 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
ft.; SQ Damage reduction 5/piercing, darkvision 60 ft., disease sense,
frightful presence (DC 15), immune to disease, invisibility, telepathy,
wounding gaze (DC 15); AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 0; Rep
+0; Str 15, Dex 8, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 15.

Skills: Bluff +11, Intimidate +11, Knowledge (any one) +10, Listen +9,
Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write Language (any one), Sense Motive +9, Speak
Abyssal, Speak Language (any one), Spot +9.

Feats: Frightful Presence, Improved Damage Threshold.

Advancement: 7–8 HD (Medium-size); 9–12 (Large); 13–18 HD (Huge).

