---
title: Attack Actions
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Most common attack actions are described below.

### Attack (Ranged)

As a single attack action, a starship can fire one or more of its ranged
weapons at any target or targets within range and within line of sight. A
target is in line of sight if there are no solid obstructions between the
attacking starship and the target. The maximum range for a beam weapon is 10
range increments. Weapons that fire projectiles have an unlimited range in
space.

If firing several weapons, a starship does not need to specify the targets of
all of its attacks ahead of time. It can see how the earlier attacks turn out
before assigning the later ones.

If a starship fires a ranged weapon at a target that occupies a square
adjacent to an ally, it takes a –4 penalty on its attack roll because the
gunner must aim carefully to avoid hitting the ally.

Attacks of Opportunity: A starship can fire its ranged weapons without
provoking attacks of opportunity from enemy ships.

### Attack An Object

Attacking objects follows the same rules for starships as for characters.
Table: Space Objects lists the Defense, hardness, and hit points of objects
commonly encountered in space and on the cosmic battlefield. Colossal objects
occupy four 500-foot squares (a 1,000-footby- 1,000-foot fighting space). All
other objects occupy a single 500-foot square.


<table> <tr><th colspan="4">Table: Space Objects</th></tr> <tr><th>Object</th><th>Defense</th><th>Hardness</th><th>Hit Points</th></tr> <tr><td>Asteroid, Colossal</td><td>–3</td><td>8</td><td>36,000</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Asteroid, Gargantuan</td><td>1</td><td>8</td><td>9,000</td></tr> <tr><td>Asteroid, Huge</td><td>3</td><td>8</td><td>4,500</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Asteroid, Large</td><td>4</td><td>8</td><td>1,125</td></tr> <tr><td>Debris cloud, Colossal</td><td>–3</td><td>0</td><td>1,600</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Debris cloud, Gargantuan</td><td>1</td><td>0</td><td>400</td></tr> <tr><td>Iceball, Colossal</td><td>–3</td><td>0</td><td>7,200</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Iceball, Gargantuan</td><td>1</td><td>0</td><td>1,800</td></tr> <tr><td>Iceball, Huge</td><td>3</td><td>0</td><td>900</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Iceball, Large</td><td>4</td><td>0</td><td>225</td></tr> <tr><td>Mine (Medium-size)</td><td>5</td><td>10</td><td>50</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Space hulk, Colossal</td><td>–3</td><td>10</td><td>3,600</td></tr> <tr><td>Space hulk, Gargantuan</td><td>1</td><td>10</td><td>900</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Space hulk, Huge</td><td>3</td><td>10</td><td>450</td></tr> </table>



### Grapple Another Ship

For rules on using grapplers and tractor beams to hold and immobilize
starships, see Grappling Systems.

### Escape A Grappling Ship

Grappler arms and tractor beams allow starships to hold and immobilize one
other. See Grappling Systems for rules on escaping grapplers and tractor
beams.

### Aid Another

A starship can help an ally attack or defend by distracting or interfering
with an enemy in weapon range. The aiding starship makes an attack roll
against Defense 10. If the attack roll succeeds, the starship doesn’t actually
damage the enemy ship—but its ally gains either a +2 circumstance bonus on
attack rolls against that opponent or a +2 circumstance bonus to Defense
against that opponent (your choice) on its next turn.

### Feint

See the expanded Bluff skill description for details.

### Total Defense

Instead of attacking, a ship can use its attack action to defend itself by
performing complex evasive maneuvers. This is called a total defense action. A
ship that uses the total defense action doesn’t get to attack, but it gains a
+4 dodge bonus to its Defense for 1 round. The ship’s Defense improves at the
start of this action, so it helps against any attacks of opportunity the ship
is subject to during its move action.

Fighting Defensively: Instead of diverting all of its attention to defending
itself, a starship can choose to fight defensively while taking a regular
attack action. If it does so, it takes a –4 penalty on its attacks in a round
to gain a +2 dodge bonus to Defense during the same round.

