---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Gremlin
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Gremlin

##  Gremlin

###  Species Traits

Gremlins have the following traits:

Disassemble Device (Ex): When making a Disable Device check, a gremlin
completely disassembles the device if the check result is 5 or more higher
than the DC of the skill check. Reassembling the device requires a successful
Repair check against a DC equal to the gremlin’s Disable Device check result.

Mystic Aid (Su): When a gremlin aids another gremlin with a Disable Device
check, the aid another attempt succeeds automatically, granting a +2 bonus to
the check. The gremlin providing the aid must be adjacent to the gremlin
performing the check.

Spell-like Abilities: 1/day—degauss, haywire, machine invisibility (DC 13),
power device. Caster level 1st.

Low-Light Vision (Ex): Gremlins can see twice as far as a human in starlight,
moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They
retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

Jury-Rigged Repair: Gremlins may only use the Repair skill to jury-rig.

Skill Bonuses: Gremlins gain a +4 species bonus on Demolition and Disable
Device skill checks.

Gremlin: CR 1/6; Diminutive fey; HD 1/8d6–1; hp 1; Mas 9; Init +4; Spd 5 ft.,
fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 18, touch 18, flatfooted 14 (+4 size, +4 Dex); BAB
+0; Grap –17; Atk –1 melee (1, claw or tiny wrench); Full Atk –1 melee (1,
claw or tiny wrench) or +8 ranged; FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ
disassemble device, mystic aid, spell-like abilities, low-light vision, jury-
rigged repair; AL none; SV Fort –1, Ref +4, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex
18, Con 9, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 10.

Skills: Computer Use +6, Craft (electronic) +6, Craft (mechanical) +6, Disable
Device +12, Demolitions +10, Escape Artist +8, Hide +18, Listen +8, Move
Silently +12, Repair +4, Spot +8, Tumble +8.

Feat: Alertness, Builder (electronic, mechanical), Simple Weapons Proficiency,
Stealthy.

Advancement: None.

