---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Equipment
excerpt: Vehicles
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Equipment](arcana-d20-srd-equipment-index) > Vehicles

##  Vehicles

Crew: The standard crew. In most cases, only one crewperson is needed to drive
the vehicle; others serve as gunners or co-pilots.

Passengers: The number of passengers the vehicle is designed to carry. This is
in addition to the crew. Vehicles that carry passengers can use passenger
space to carry additional cargo when passengers aren’t present. Each unused
passenger slot allows the vehicle to carry an additional 250 pounds of cargo.
Cargo Capacity: The amount of cargo the vehicle is designed to carry. Many
vehicles can, in a pinch, carry extra passengers instead of cargo, but doing
so is usually a cramped, uncomfortable, and often unsafe experience for those
passengers. As a rule of thumb, one additional passenger can be carried for
each 250 pounds of unused cargo capacity.

Initiative: The modifier added to initiative rolls when driving the vehicle.

Maneuver: The modifier added to any Drive or Pilot checks attempted with the
vehicle.

Max Speed: The maximum number of squares the vehicle can cover in a single
round at character scale (with the number of squares at chase scale in
parentheses).

This is the fastest the vehicle can move.

Defense: The vehicle’s Defense.

Hardness: The vehicle’s hardness. Subtract this number from any weapon damage
dealt to the vehicle.

Hit Points: The vehicle’s maximum hit points.

Size: The vehicle’s size category.

Purchase DC: The purchase DC to buy the vehicle.

Restriction: The restriction rating for the vehicle.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="13"> Table: Vehicles </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Name </th> <th> Crew </th> <th> Pass </th> <th> Cargo (lb.) </th> <th> Init </th> <th> Maneuver </th> <th> Max Speed </th> <th> Armor Class </th> <th> Hardness </th> <th> Hit Points </th> <th> Size </th> <th> Purchase DC </th> <th> Restriction </th> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="13" style="text-align: left"> General Purpose Aircraft </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Ultralight </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 50 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> 28 (2) </td> <td> 9 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 10 </td> <td> L </td> <td> 21 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Maulle M-7-260C (seaplane) </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 900 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> 175 (17) </td> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 55 </td> <td> G </td> <td> 37 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="13" style="text-align: left"> General Purpose Bicycles </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Diamondback X-20 (mountain) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> –1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> 40 (4) </td> <td> 11 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 6 </td> <td> S </td> <td> 14 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> LeMond Victoire (racing bike) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> –1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> 50 (5) </td> <td> 11 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> S </td> <td> 21 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Mongoose Fuzz Pro (BMX bike) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> –1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> 30 (3) </td> <td> 11 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> S </td> <td> 13 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="13" style="text-align: left"> Civilian Cars </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1967 Chevrolet Camaro (sports coupe) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 250 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> –1 </td> <td> 200 (20) </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 36 </td> <td> H </td> <td> 28 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Police cruiser </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 425 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> 190 (19) </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 34 </td> <td> H </td> <td> 30 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Dodge Intrepid police interceptor (sports coupe) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 200 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> 200 (20) </td> <td> 9 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 34 </td> <td> L </td> <td> 31 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="13" style="text-align: left"> General Purpose Motorcycles </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Police motorcycle (street bike) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> 10 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> 290 (29) </td> <td> 9 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 22 </td> <td> L </td> <td> 27 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Vespa ET4 (scooter) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> 22 (2) </td> <td> 10 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 10 </td> <td> M </td> <td> 18 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Harley Davidson V-Rod (street bike) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 0 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> 300 (30) </td> <td> 9 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 22 </td> <td> L </td> <td> 27 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="13" style="text-align: left"> General Purpose Trucks </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Jeep Wrangler (SUV) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 800 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> 140 (14) </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 32 </td> <td> H </td> <td> 28 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Ford Econoline 150 (van) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 4800 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> 195 (19) </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 34 </td> <td> H </td> <td> 29 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Peterbilt Model 379 (tractor trailer) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 80,000* </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> 130 (13) </td> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 85 </td> <td> G </td> <td> 33 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="13" style="text-align: left"> General Purpose Water Vehicles </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Tug boat </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4000 tons </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> 30 (3) </td> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 150 </td> <td> G </td> <td> 38 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Fishing trawler </td> <td> 9 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 100 tons </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> 30 (3) </td> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 175 </td> <td> G </td> <td> 43 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Avanti 39 (cigarette boat) </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 300 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> 100 (10) </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 50 </td> <td> H </td> <td> 35 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="13" style="text-align: left"> Other General Purpose Vehicles </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Emergency aid vehicle </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 1000 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> 160 (16) </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 34 </td> <td> H </td> <td> 30 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Fire truck </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 2500 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> 105 (10) </td> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 80 </td> <td> G </td> <td> 35 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Police peacekeeper </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 10 </td> <td> 250 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> 95 (10) </td> <td> 8 </td> <td> 10 </td> <td> 48 </td> <td> H </td> <td> 40 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Tow truck </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 50,000* </td> <td> –2 </td> <td> –4 </td> <td> 130 (13) </td> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 39 </td> <td> G </td> <td> 31 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr> <td colspan="13" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> *Towing and/or hauling capacity </td> </tr> </table>


###  General Purpose Aircraft

There are many models of civilian aircraft—from single-engine propeller planes
to jumbo jets. All use the Pilot skill to operate.

**Maulle M-7-260C Seaplane**

The Maulle M-7-260C seaplane has a fast cruise speed and low stall speed,
making it ideal for water landings. With twin pontoons instead of wheels,
landing a seaplane on anything but water would be disastrous. A seaplane is
six squares wide and six squares long.

###  Ultralight

Ultralights are essentially powered hang gliders. An ultralight only requires
100 feet or so to land and take off, depending on wind conditions. It is small
enough to fit in the back of a pickup truck when disassembled. It takes 15
minutes to disassemble an ultralight and 30 minutes to assemble it. An
ultralight is two squares wide and two squares long. The vehicle is very
fragile and provides no cover to its pilot.

###  General Purpose Bicycles

Bicycles are common in urban settings and have the main advantage of being
able to skirt past traffic jams. See additional rules on operating a bicycle
below.

**Diamondback X-20 Mountain Bike**

The Diamondback X-20 is a rugged mountain bike that works equally well on
smooth streets or rough terrain. The rider suffers no additional penalties for
taking the bike offroad. A mountain bike is one square wide and one square
long.

**LeMond Victoire Racing Bike**

The LeMond Victoire is a top of the line, aerodynamic 10-speed bicycle
designed for riding on streets and highways. A rider suffers a –4 penalty on
Balance checks if they take the bike offroad. A racing bike is one square wide
and one square long.

**Mongoose Pro Fuzz BMX Bike**

A typical BMX bike used for offroad trails and stunt riding. The rider suffers
no additional penalties for going offroad with this bicycle. A BMX bike is one
square wide and one square long.

**Police Bicycle**

A police bicycle is a mountain bike (usually black and emblazoned with
“POLICE” on the side) that includes large saddlebags that hold a small amount
of equipment: 6 zip-ties, 3 road flares, a multipurpose tool, a first-aid kit,
and a flashlight. A police bicycle is one square wide and one square long.

**Operating a Bicycle**

Operating a bicycle uses the same rules as any other vehicle, but with a few
special rules:

  * Operating a bicycle uses the Balance skill instead of Drive, but is otherwise treated the same when using the Vehicle rules. 
  * A bicycle can only reach a maximum of street speed and doing so requires a full-round action, unless going down a significant downward slope (GM’s discretion). The rider must use a full-round action to climb up a significant slope and can only move a maximum of alley speed on such an action. 
  * After every hour of strenuous riding, the rider must make a Constitution check or become fatigued for 1d10 minutes per hour of riding. 
  * It is a free action to get on or off a bicycle. 
  * All attacks made from a bicycle suffer a –2 penalty. The rider cannot use any weapons that require both hands. 
  * Bicycles are Small vehicles, granting a +1 bonus to Initiative, maneuver modifier, and Defense (the size modifier is already included in the vehicle statistics on Table: Vehicles.) 
  * Bicycle tires have 2 hit points each. 

###  General Purpose Cars

Most new general purpose cars include such standard features as air
conditioning, air bags, antilock brakes, cruise control, keyless entry, and
AM/FM radio with CD player. Luxury vehicles also include extras like heated
side mirrors, power seats, leather upholstery, and sunroofs. In general, these
luxury amenities can be added to a non-luxury car with a +1 increase in the
vehicle’s purchase DC.

Unless otherwise noted, civilian cars provide three-quarters cover for their
occupants (although passengers who lean out of windows or sunroofs, perhaps to
fire weapons, may be reduced to one-half or even one-quarter cover).

**1967 Chevrolet Camaro**

A good example of a “muscle car,” a 1967 Chevy Camaro has a 350 cubic inch V8
engine that produces 295 horsepower. This does not include additional upgrades
such as turbocharging and racing tires. A Camaro is two squares wide and four
squares long.

**Police Cruiser**

This version is based on the Ford Crown Victoria, with a strengthened chassis
and improved engine. It is the typical police vehicle found in cities and
other urban areas. The police cruiser is two squares wide and four squares
long.

**Dodge Intrepid Police Interceptor**

With faster sports cars on the streets, the police occasionally need faster
cars to catch them. Only the largest and best-funded police departments can
afford this vehicle. It contains the same equipment as a regular police
cruiser. Police interceptors are two squares wide and four squares long.

**General Purpose Trucks**

Trucks include pickups, sport-utility vehicles, vans and minivans. They
generally have the same range of features as civilian cars. Like cars, trucks
generally provide three-quarters cover to their occupants. The rear beds of
pickup trucks, however, provide only one-half cover.

**Ford Econoline 150**

A typical full-sized van used for hauling cargo or passengers, the Ford
Econoline 150 comes with two conventional doors up front, sliding doors on the
side, and a rear hatch-style door. It is two squares wide and four squares
long.

**Jeep Wrangler**

The Wrangler is a small truck designed for serious off-roading. It sports
oversized tires, a roll bar, and heavy-duty shock absorbers. It’s not fast,
but can get through difficult terrain much better than a normal car. A
Wrangler is two squares wide and three squares long.

**Peterbilt 379**

The cab of this 18-wheeler has the classic long nose of most big rigs. It is
spacious, powerful, and comfortable. This model includes a sleeper space
immediately behind the cab, giving the driver a home away from home. The
Peterbilt 379 also carries a basic mechanical tool kit, a CB radio
(essentially a professional walkie-talkie with twice the usual range), and a
GPS receiver. The vehicle is two squares wide and fourteen squares long,
including a full-sized trailer. The cab alone is five squares long. The cab
provides three-quarters cover to its occupants, and being in the trailer
provides full cover.

**Tow Truck**

A tow truck is a large diesel-powered vehicle with a professional grade tow
bar/winch used for hauling inoperative cars. It takes 2d10 minutes to hook up
a car with the tow bar—a successful Repair check (DC 10) can halve the time.
Most tow trucks also carry a basic mechanical tool kit, CB radio, and one-
gallon gas can. A tow truck is two squares wide and four squares long.

###  General Purpose Motorcycles

Unlike getting into a car, mounting a motorcycle is a free action. Motorcycles
tend to perform better than automobiles, but they provide no cover to their
occupants.

**V-Rod**

The V-Rod combines the aesthetics of a traditional Harley with the engine of a
racing bike. Using a liquid-cooled engine that kicks out 115 horsepower, this
monster combines the “biker” mystique with the speed of a racing bike. The
V-Rod is one square wide by two squares long.

**Police Motorcycle**

Most police departments use Harley-Davidson motorcycles, specially altered to
suit the department’s needs and painted to look obvious. It has a professional
CB radio, siren, bubble lights, and a powerful 1450 cc engine. It has two
large saddlebags that contain the following items: 6 zip-ties, 3 road flares,
a multipurpose tool, a first-aid kit, and a flashlight. A police motorcycle is
one square wide by two squares long.

**Vespa ET4**

A compromise between a bicycle and a motorcycle, scooters are useful for
getting through clogged city streets. Because they only have small, single-
cylinder engines, scooters are not allowed on highways. A scooter is one
square wide and one square long.

###  General Purpose Water Vehicles

Piloting a water vehicle is covered by the Drive skill. Because of their size,
most large boats are more likely to be used as places to stage an adventure
rather than as a vehicle to get around.

**Avanti 39 Cigarette Boat**

Long and sleek, this expensive and high-powered boat is designed to move fast
and look good. It is commonly used for smuggling cargo between ports that are
not likely to stop something that obviously belongs to an “upstanding
citizen.” A cigarette boat is two squares wide and eight squares long.

**Fishing Trawler**

Fishing trawlers are found around commercial fishing ports. They are huge
boats with most of their space dedicated to equipment that harvests and stores
fish. They are slow, but handle well in rough water (+2 bonus on Drive checks
in rough seas). A fishing boat is four squares wide and sixteen squares long.

**Tug Boat**

Common around ports, tug boats help guide larger vessels to and from the
docks. They are slow but incredibly powerful, being able to nudge huge ships
with their oversized and overtorqued engines. A tug boat is four squares wide
and eighteen squares long.

###  Other Vehicles

A few types of vehicles don’t fit neatly into the categories covered above.
Many of these (like the emergency aid vehicle and urban assault vehicle) are
usually custom built, so the model name isn’t specified as it is with most
other vehicles. The description and statistics reflect a typical design.

**Emergency Aid Vehicle**

When someone needs medical attention, this is what shows up. It contains a
large amount of medical and emergency rescue supplies. An emergency aid
vehicle is two squares wide and four squares long.

**Fire Truck**

There are technically two types of fire trucks—pumpers, which have large water
tanks, and ladder trucks, which mount enormous ladders for getting
firefighters up high. A fire truck is two squares wide and six squares long.

**Police Peacekeeper**

When mobs are rioting in the streets, some police departments roll out these
armored personnel carriers to help quell violence. In addition to their size
and intimidating appearance, police APCs mount a water cannon, loudspeaker,
and grenade launcher that fires tear gas rounds. The police peacekeeper is
crewed by a driver, a “gunner” (for the water cannon), and a commander. It has
three top hatches, one above each crew position, and a large door in back for
police to load or disembark. It takes one full-round action to enter an APC
through a top hatch, and another full-round action to start it moving. Police
armored personnel carriers are two squares wide and four squares long.

**What a Police Officer Carries**

Police and other law-enforcement officers carry a large amount of equipment
with them at all times. Here is a sample list of the typical equipment carried
by a uniformed police officer, excluding items that are normally carried
inside the police cruiser or during special situations, such as a raid or SWAT
action.

  * Glock 17 (plus 2 extra clips of ammunition) 
  * Undercover vest 
  * Flashlight (can be used as a club) 
  * Handcuffs, steel 
  * Zip-ties (6) 
  * Walkie-talkie (professional) 
  * Cell phone 
  * Pepper spray canister 
  * Metal baton and/or tonfa 
  * Multitool 
  * Latex gloves (12) 
  * Citation book 

**What is Inside a Police Cruiser**

Police vehicles vary in terms of what equipment they carry, depending on
whether they belong to state, county, or city precincts. Despite this, there
is enough similarity to assume that the following equipment could be found in
any police cruiser.

The following items are located in the front passenger compartment of the
vehicle:

  * Mossberg shotgun (including box of ammunition with 12 rounds; Disable Device check DC 20 to open the lock) 
  * Patrol box 
  * CB radio (professional) 
  * Maps (road atlas) 
  * GPS receiver 
  * Searchlight (as battery flood flashlight but double the range; mounted to vehicle) 
  * Pepper spray canister 
  * Baton (use club) or tonfa 
  * Flashlight (standard and 12 chemical light sticks) 
  * Taser (50% chance) 

The following equipment is typically located in the trunk of the vehicle
(Disable Device check DC 15 to open the lock):

  * First-aid kit 
  * Basic evidence kit 
  * Basic toolkit (including duct tape, boltcutters, and multipurpose tool) 
  * Handcuffs and plastic zip ties 
  * Blankets 
  * Food (the equivalent of 2 days trail rations) 
  * 12 road flares 
  * Traffic cones 
  * Gas siphon 
  * Crime scene tape 
  * Portable fire extinguisher 
  * Trauma kit (50% chance) 
  * 4 tear gas canisters (50% chance) 
  * Spike strip (50% chance) 

**What is in an Emergency Aid Vehicle**

Obviously, aid vehicles are loaded with a huge variety of medical equipment.
Instead of listing every single item, assume that the following “kits” can be
assembled from the gear carried inside.

  * 1 crash cart 
  * 4 trauma kits 
  * 6 first-aid kits 
  * 1 basic evidence kit 

In addition, aid vehicles contain a large number of non-medical equipment,
allowing them to provide assistance under almost any circumstance.

  * CB radio (as professional walkie-talkie with twice the range) 
  * GPS receiver 
  * Maps (road atlas) 
  * Flashlights (2 standard, 4 penlights, 1 battery flood) 
  * Cellular phone 
  * Basic mechanical tool kit (including duct tape, boltcutters, multipurpose tool) 
  * Rope (50 feet) 
  * Blankets 
  * Physical restraints (equivalent to handcuffs) 
  * Sand bags (for stabilization) 
  * Wood blocks (for setting tires) 
  * Searchlight (as a battery flood flashlight, but twice the range; mounted on vehicle) 
  * Winch and cable 
  * Hydraulic compressor (50% chance; mounted on outside of vehicle) 
  * Jaws of life (only if there is a hydraulic compressor) 
  * Metal cutting saw (only if there is a hydraulic compressor) 
  * Tire chains (+2 bonus on Drive checks on icy surfaces) 

**What is Inside a Fire Truck**

Fire trucks are enormous vehicles that carry a tremendous amount of
firefighting, medical, and search and rescue equipment. Obviously, most of the
space is dedicated to the operation of the fire hoses. The following items can
be found in the front cab of a fire truck:

  * CB radio (equivalent to professional walkie-talkie with double the range). 
  * GPS receiver 
  * Searchlight (mounted to vehicle) 
  * 4 walkie-talkies (professional) with charger 
  * Maps (road atlas) 
  * Instant camera and extra film 
  * Binoculars 
  * Shovels, brooms, and steel rake 
  * 2 battery powered floodlights 

The following items are located in various storage panels on the sides and
rear of the fire truck. Some of these items have been condensed into kits:

  * 1 crash kit 
  * 2 trauma kits 
  * 3 first-aid kits 
  * 1 basic evidence kit 
  * Hose and pipe fittings 
  * Flashlights (3 battery flood, 3 regular) 
  * Basic mechanical tool kit (including duct tape, boltcutters, multipurpose tool) 
  * Long tools (shovels, rakes, brooms, wrenches, pry bar, fire axe, sledgehammer) 
  * Hand-held fire extinguishers (pressure water, dry chemical, C02, halon) 
  * Rope (100 feet) 
  * 2 searchlights (mounted on sides of the vehicle) 
  * Submersible water pump 
  * Tarps 
  * 2 chainsaws 

The following equipment is located in the hose bed and open top compartment of
a fire truck:

  * Fire hoses (100+ feet) 
  * Hose fittings and couplings 
  * 5 gallon can of gasoline 
  * 2 15-foot ladders 
  * Gas-powered circular saw 
  * Gas-powered electrical generator and cables 

