---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Incantations
excerpt: Possession
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Incantations](arcana-d20-srd-incantations-index) > Possession

##  Possession

Necromancy

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 34, 6 successes; Failure: Two
consecutive failed skill checks; Components: V, S, M, XP; Casting Time: 60
minutes (minimum); Range: Touch; Target: One helpless creature of fewer Hit
Dice than you; Duration: 12 hours (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (DC 16 +
caster’s Charisma modifier); Spell Resistance: Yes

By casting the possession incantation, you place the subject’s soul in a
receptacle (a gem or large crystal) while your soul inhabits the subject’s
body, leaving your body lifeless. Then you can attempt to take control of a
nearby body, forcing its soul into the receptacle. The spell ends when you
send your soul back to your own body (restoring the subject’s soul to its body
and causing the receptacle to crumble into dust).

You possess the body and force the creature’s soul into the receptacle unless
the subject succeeds at a Will save. Failure to take over the host leaves your
life force in your body, and the receptacle turns to dust. If successful, your
life force occupies the host body, and the host’s life force is imprisoned in
the receptacle. You keep your Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, level, class,
base attack bonus, base save bonuses, alignment, and mental abilities.

The body retains its Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, hit points, natural
abilities, and automatic abilities. A body with extra limbs does not allow you
to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.
You can’t choose to activate the body’s extraordinary or supernatural
abilities. The creature’s spells and spell-like abilities do not stay with the
body.

As an attack or move action, you can send the trapped soul back to its body
and return to yours. This ends the spell.

If the host body is slain, you return to your body and the life force of the
host departs (that is, it is dead). If the spell ends while you are in a host,
you return to your body and the soul in the receptacle returns to its body.
Destroying the receptacle ends the spell and returns both souls to their
original bodies. The spell can be dispelled at either the receptacle or the
host.

When you transfer your soul upon casting, your body is, as near as anyone can
tell, dead.

Material Component: A large gem or crystal (purchase DC 25).

Experience Point Cost: 1,000 XP.

Failure: Mirrorcast. You wind up trapped inside the receptacle, and the
subject’s soul inhabits your body.

