---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title: FX Items
excerpt: Rings
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[Arcana d20 SRD](/#arcanaD20) > [FX Items](arcana-d20-srd-fx-items-index) > Rings

## Rings

A ring is a circular metal band worn on the finger that contains a spell-like
effect (often an effect that persists as long as the ring is worn).

Sample rings include the following:

**Cat’s Eye Ring**

This ring grants the wearer continuous low-light vision. In addition, once per
day, the wearer may transform into a cat (as the baleful polymorph
incantation, but with no skill checks or additional components required). The
wearer can turn back into her own form at any time. Either way, the
transformation takes a move action to complete.

The wearer retains her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores in cat form,
during which the ring takes the form of a handsome collar.

Type: Ring (magic); Caster Level: 12th*; Purchase DC: 37; Weight: —.

**Decoder Ring**

This cheap-looking tin ring has a small dial adorned with letters of the
alphabet. It grants its wearer a +10 equipment bonus on Decipher Script
checks. Note that understanding does not necessarily imply spell use.

Type: Ring (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: —.

**Ring of Algos**

This iron signet ring has a sigil of Algos (see Incantations) carved into its
setting. Any time the wearer shakes hands with another living creature, he may
activate the ring’s power (as an attack action). The two parties shaking hands
make opposed Will saves, although the ring’s wearer gets to add his Charisma
bonus to his save. Whoever has the lower result receives a –4 penalty to all
attack rolls, skill checks, and saving throws for the next 12 hours.

Type: Ring (magic); Caster Level: 11th*; Purchase DC: 36; Weight: —.

**Ring of Cold Cocking**

This brass ring is shaped like a fist. The wearer can make an unarmed attack
against a flat-footed opponent as if he had the Knockout Punch feat, even if
he doesn’t have the prerequisites.

Type: Ring (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: —.

**Ring of Lockpicking**

On command, this ring releases several lockpicks, tongs, and tiny mechanical
arms designed to fit into any Fine or Diminutive lock. The ring grants a +5
equipment bonus on Disable Device checks when picking or disabling mechanical
or electronic locks.

Type: Ring (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 28; Weight: —.

**Ring of Lyssa**

A ring is made of delicate silver threads forged in a pattern of thorny
brambles with a single blood-red ruby set in the center. Anyone who puts on
this cursed ring is suffers the effects of a sigil of Lyssa incantation for as
long as the ring is worn (Will save, DC 28, negates). When the ring is
removed, the victim must make a second Will save (DC 28) or suffer the effects
for an additional 16 minutes.

Type: Ring (magic); Caster Level: 12th*; Purchase DC: 37; Weight: —.

**Ring of Surveillance Detection**

This ring pulses dimly when electronic devices are monitoring the wearer. The
ring can detect a working video camera, microphone, motion detector, or other
sensor within 50 feet. By taking a full-round action, the wearer can locate
the direction and distance to the device. It grants a +5 circumstance bonus on
Search checks when trying to find concealed monitoring devices.

Type: Ring (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: —.

**Ring of Via Negativa**

This ring is set with a black pearl and allows its wearer to cast via negativa
three times per day. Activating the ring is an attack action. Type: Ring
(magic); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 32; Weight: —.

