---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Shadowkind
excerpt: Languages Of Shadow
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Shadowkind](arcana-d20-srd-shadowkind-index) > Languages Of Shadow

##  Languages Of Shadow

Creatures who reach our modern world through Shadow gain an innate knowledge
of English, Spanish, Russian, or whatever the predominant language happens to
be in the area in which they arrive. To them, the language resembles Common, a
language that was used in trade or other negotiations between different
species in the world of their birth. Whether this is mere coincidence or part
of some great design remains a mystery.

“Languages of Shadow” are languages brought to our world by creatures of
Shadow. Like Earth languages, these languages can be grouped together in
families. Languages that belong to a single family share the same root
alphabet. However, knowing one language in a family doesn’t enable characters
with the Smart hero’s linguist talent to automatically speak, write, and
understand the other languages in that family.

Natives of our world—human and Shadowkind alike—can learn new Shadow languages
only after they are exposed to them; they can’t master them spontaneously. To
learn Draconic, for example, a character must spend time with creatures that
speak Draconic or find someone with access to the written language (Draconic
“books on tape” or ancient texts written using the Draconic alphabet, for
example). Certain Shadowkind know languages commonly spoken among members of
their species, and all characters may study and learn new Shadow languages,
investing in the appropriate Read/Write Language and Speak Language skills as
they advance in level.

Table: Shadow Languages by Family lists various languages of Shadow and their
root alphabets. Shadow language families include the following:

Celestial: Elegant in its simplicity and purity, celestial writing tends to be
direct in its language. Spoken, it has a gentle, flowing tone.

Draconic: A florid, powerful alphabet, Draconic is often used for magical
messages and inscriptions. It is said to descend from the dragons themselves
and is often referred to as the Original Language and the Words of Power.

Dwarven: Using an alphabet similar to the Norse runes, the dwarven alphabet
was made to be carved in stone, and its letters look as if they were chiseled
in place. Languages in this family are generally rough and heavily accented.

Elven: The elven alphabet is a thin, flowing freehand script with letters
overlapping and curling in on themselves, suitable for inscription on metal,
ivory, or very hard woods. It is used by elves (including drow) and has a
melodic tone when spoken.

Fiendish: The Fiendish alphabet is a jagged, powerful script. The two
languages that form this group—Abyssal and Infernal—are dominated by harsh
gutturals and accents. Favored by evil outsiders, its presence usually
indicates something malefic.

Halfling: The halfling alphabet makes heavy use of pictograms and lettering
passingly similar in appearance to musical notes. The spoken language is a
patois incorporating elements of Elven combined with distinctive halfling
idioms.

Undertongue: Represented by harsh lines and stark hieroglyphs, this debased
version of Elven is spoken by countless subterranean species, usually for the
purpose of doing business with one another.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="3"> Table: Languages Of Shadow By Family </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Language </th> <th> Typical Speakers </th> <th> Alphabet/Family </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Abyssal </td> <td> Outsiders with allegiances to chaos, evil </td> <td> Fiendish </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Aquan </td> <td> Water-based creatures </td> <td> Elven </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Auran </td> <td> Air-based creatures </td> <td> Draconic </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Celestial </td> <td> Creatures with good allegiance </td> <td> Celestial </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Common </td> <td> Various Shadowkind species </td> <td> Common </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Draconic </td> <td> Dragons and other reptilian creatures </td> <td> Draconic </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Drow Sign Language </td> <td> Drow </td> <td> None* </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Dwarven </td> <td> Dwarves </td> <td> Dwarven </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Elven </td> <td> Elves, drow, and half-elves </td> <td> Elven </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Giant </td> <td> Giants, trolls, ogres </td> <td> Dwarven </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Gnoll </td> <td> Gnolls </td> <td> Dwarven </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Gnome </td> <td> Gnomes </td> <td> Dwarven </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Goblin </td> <td> Goblins, bugbears, and other goblinoids </td> <td> Dwarven </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Halfling </td> <td> Halflings </td> <td> Elven </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Ignan </td> <td> Fire-based or fire-worshiping creatures </td> <td> Draconic </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Infernal </td> <td> Outsiders with evil, law allegiances </td> <td> Fiendish </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Orc </td> <td> Orcs and half-orcs </td> <td> Dwarven </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Sylvan </td> <td> Forest-dwelling creatures and fey </td> <td> Elven </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Terran </td> <td> Earth-based creatures </td> <td> Dwarven </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Undertongue </td> <td> Subterranean creatures </td> <td> Elven </td> </tr> <tr> <td colspan="3" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> *See the Footnote on Sign Languages. </td> </tr> </table>


###  Footnote on Sign Languages

Knowing one type of sign language does not grant knowledge of other sign
languages. In the mundane world, ASL (American Sign Language) is a dominant
form of nonverbal communication in the United States and may be used and
understood by any character who takes the Speak American Sign Language skill.
However, the communication is in the native language of the speaker. Two
characters using ASL to communicate with each other must share another common
language.

