---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Incantations
excerpt: Creating New Incantations
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Incantations](arcana-d20-srd-incantations-index) > Creating New Incantations

##  Creating New Incantations

Designing unique incantations is a tricky balancing act. Incantations are
intentionally constructed to be much more idiosyncratic than spells. Since
incantations hinge on Knowledge (arcane lore) checks, it’s possible for
characters to gain access to powerful magic before they are ready for it.
Incantations are built from building blocks called seeds, which describe in
general terms the magic effect you’re trying to create. When you’re designing
your own incantation, you’ll first choose which seed (or seeds) you want for
the incantation.

Each seed comes with its own Knowledge (arcane lore) DC, which will serve as
the base DC for the incantation you’re designing. If you’re designing an
incantation with more than one seed, choose the most important one to provide
the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC. Other seeds add one-third their Knowledge
(arcane lore) DC to the total.

Next you’ll apply a number of factors: modifications to the Knowledge (arcane
lore) DC based on the specifics of your ritual. Increasing the base range of
an incantation, for example, is a factor that will increase the Knowledge
(arcane lore) DC. Reducing the duration of the incantation, on the other hand,
is a factor that reduces the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC.

The third step is to identify components and options for the incantation. Some
of your choices here may modify the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC further. Next,
you’ll set the effective level of the incantation. In some respects,
incantations are like 6th- through 9th-level spells. Assess how powerful the
incantation is, and assign it an effective level. The effective level
determines a number of relatively minor aspects to the incantation: how many
total successes are required, the exact save DC of the incantation, and
sometimes its precise range and duration.

Total Successes: Equal to the incantation’s effective level (minimum 6).

Save DC: Equals 10 + incantation’s effective level + caster’s Charisma
modifier.

Duration and Range: Assume a caster level of twice the spell’s level, using
the same formula a spell would. For example an incantation built from a seed
with a duration of “minutes” would last 12 minutes if it’s effectively a 6th-
level spell. The same incantation with Medium range can affect a target up to
220 feet away.

Finally, you’ll decide how to put the new incantation in your game. Usually, a
Research check will suffice to reveal it to the characters, but some
incantations can be powerful tools in the hands of NPCs.

###  Create with Caution

Fundamentally, it’s important to realize that this system is meant as a
starting point, not the last word. Anytime you have multiple modifiers to a
single DC, the potential for accidental consequences or intentional abuse is
there.

To keep incantations under control in your campaign, avoid creating
incantations with Knowledge (arcane lore) DCs lower than 30. Conversely, don’t
allow any feat, class feature, or magic item that provides a large bonus to
Knowledge (arcane lore) checks. Bonuses of +2 or even +4 are fine, but larger
bonuses might unbalance your game.

GMs should emphasize how much faster, easier, and safer spells are than
incantations. Every incantation you create should have at least one component
that’s difficult for the caster to deal with, such as an experience point
cost, expensive material component, or significant backlash. Because
incantations don’t require spell slots—or even spellcasting ability—you need
to make sure that characters can’t simply cast incantations repeatedly,
stopping only to sleep.

