---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title: Organizations
excerpt: Cirque Des Moitié
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[Organizations](arcana-d20-srd-organizations-index) > Cirque Des Moitié

## Cirque Des Moitié

One of the most difficult questions facing intelligent creatures who find
themselves suddenly living on our side of Shadow is how to support themselves.
Many of the skills and abilities that were highly prized in their former lives
have no application (no legal application, that is) in the mundane world.
Some, however, find their natural talents have unexpected outlets.

Such is the case with the members of Cirque des Moitié, a collection of
halflings who have formed a troupe of acrobats and clowns that mundane crowds
know as “the Greatest Little Show on Earth.” Cirque has become world famous
for precision acrobatics, sets and music that are often described as
“otherworldly,” and routines so spectacular that crowds swear they must be
magical. Of course, the truth of the matter is that they are magical. The
troupe builds their shows using not only the halflings’ natural agility but
knowledge of arcane and divine magic, too. They also employ a number of gnomes
to design and build sets, and a few dwarves to do strength- and stamina- based
acts. Occasionally they will also hire on members of other, taller races to
play specific roles, but in general they try to make sure that their
performers are of small stature.

Among Shadowkind, Cirque des Moitié is considered one of the greatest success
stories of adapting to the mundane world. Elves, half-orcs, and other races do
not find the acts awesome in the way mundane crowds do, but they still come to
the show in droves simply to celebrate the halflings’ success.

Cirque des Moitié constantly travels the globe. This makes it a difficult
organization for heroes to belong to (unless they can squeeze their adventures
in between the two-shows nightly schedule). Other than that there is no reason
that any hero of size small or lower (with high Dexterity and Charisma scores)
couldn’t join the Cirque. And, in fact, the troupe does employ larger,
stronger races to work on the stage crew.

The performers of Cirque des Moitié spend a great deal of time developing both
their physical prowess and their acting abilities. The troupe has a training
regimen that they guard as closely as warrior monks guard their secret martial
techniques. Members of this organization may use the following feats to fill
any open feat slots.

**Cirque Acrobate**

Prerequisite: Dexterity 16, Acrobatic, Cirque Contrôleur, Balance 6 ranks,
Tumble 9 ranks.

Benefit: You gain a +2 competence bonus on Disguise, Perform (dance), and
Sleight of Hand checks.

**Cirque Contrôleur**

Prerequisite: Dexterity 15, Acrobatic, Balance 6 ranks.

Benefit: You gain a +2 competence bonus on Move Silently, Perform (act), and
Tumble checks.

**Cirque Vedette**

Prerequisite: Dexterity 18, Acrobatic, Cirque Acrobate, Cirque Contrôleur,
Balance 6 ranks, Tumble 9 ranks, Disguise 12 ranks.

Benefit: You gain a +4 competence bonus on Balance, Escape Artist, Move
Silently, Sleight of Hand, and Tumble checks.

