---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Celestial
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Celestial

##  Celestial

All celestials are outsiders. A sample celestial (the gotthammer) is presented
below; use the information about outsiders to create new celestial types.

###  Species Traits

Celestials have the following traits:

Variable Size: Most celestials are Medium, but their size can vary and some
celestials can change their size naturally. Depending on their size,
celestials gain a size bonus or penalty on attack rolls, Defense, Hide checks,
and grapple checks.

Natural Armor: Celestials gain a natural armor bonus to Defense equal to 3 +
the celestial’s Hit Dice.

Immunities (Ex): A celestial is immune to one or more specific types of energy
or weapon damage, as determined by rolling on Table: Celectial Immunities,
Resistances, and Damage Reduction.

Energy Resistance (Ex): A celestial is resistant to one or more types of
energy, as determined by rolling on Table: Celectial Immunities, Resistances,
and Damage Reduction. Roll again if the celestial is resistant to a type of
energy against which it already has immunity.

Damage Reduction (Ex): Some celestials have damage reduction, as determined by
rolling on Table: Celectial Immunities, Resistances, and Damage Reduction.

Tongues (Su): A celestial may converse with any creature that has a language.
This ability is always active.

Keen Vision (Ex): Celestials have darkvision with a range of 60 feet and low-
light vision.

Allegiances: Celestials have a primary allegiance to good. They may also have
allegiances to law or chaos. Fallen celestials may revoke any or all of their
prior allegiances.

Bonus Feats: Celestials gain either Archaic Weapons Proficiency or Simple
Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Celestials speak Celestial and a number of additional
languages equal to their Intelligence bonus.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="6"> Table: Celectial Immunities, Resistances, and Damage Reduction </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Roll d% </th> <th> Immunity </th> <th> Roll d% </th> <th> Resistance Roll </th> <th> d% </th> <th> Damage Reduction </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 01–06 </td> <td> Acid damage </td> <td> 01–21 </td> <td> None (do not roll again) </td> <td> 01–33 </td> <td> None (do not roll again) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 07–12 </td> <td> Cold damage </td> <td> 22–27 </td> <td> Acid resistance 10 </td> <td> 34–45 </td> <td> 5/specific weapon type <sup> 1 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 13–18 </td> <td> Sonic/concussion damage </td> <td> 28–30 </td> <td> Acid resistance 20 </td> <td> 46–57 </td> <td> 10/specific weapon type <sup> 1 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 19–24 </td> <td> Electricity damage </td> <td> 31–36 </td> <td> Cold resistance 10 </td> <td> 58–63 </td> <td> 20/specific weapon type <sup> 1 </sup> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 25–30 </td> <td> Fire damage </td> <td> 37–39 </td> <td> Cold resistance 20 </td> <td> 64–72 </td> <td> 5/+1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 31–36 </td> <td> Ballistic damage </td> <td> 40–45 </td> <td> Sonic/concussion resistance 10 </td> <td> 73–81 </td> <td> 10/+1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 37–42 </td> <td> Bludgeoning damage </td> <td> 46–48 </td> <td> Sonic/concussion resistance 20 </td> <td> 82–84 </td> <td> 15/+1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 43–48 </td> <td> Piercing damage </td> <td> 49–54 </td> <td> Electricity resistance 10 </td> <td> 85–87 </td> <td> 20/+1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 49–54 </td> <td> Slashing damage </td> <td> 55–57 </td> <td> Electricity resistance 20 </td> <td> 88–90 </td> <td> 5/+2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 55–60 </td> <td> Poison damage </td> <td> 58–63 </td> <td> Fire resistance 10 </td> <td> 91–93 </td> <td> 10/+2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 61–66 </td> <td> Radiation damage </td> <td> 64–66 </td> <td> Fire resistance 20 </td> <td> 94–98 </td> <td> 15/+2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 67–100 </td> <td> Choose one, and roll again </td> <td> 67–100 </td> <td> Choose one, and roll again </td> <td> 99–100 </td> <td> 20/+2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td colspan="6" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> <sup> 1 </sup> Includes weapons made of a specific material (silver or wood, for example) or weapons that deal a specific type of damage (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing). </td> </tr> </table>


Gotthammer (Avenging Angel): CR 15; Medium outsider; HD 14d8+70; hp 133; Mas
20; Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (perfect); Defense
27, touch 10, flat-footed 27 (+17 natural); BAB +14; Grap +18; Atk +21 melee
(2d6+9/19–20, +3 greatsword); Full Atk +21/+16/+11 melee (2d6+7/19–20, +3
greatsword) or +14/+9/+4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ acid and
fire resistance 10, aura of menace, call/dismiss weapon, damage reduction
10/+1, greater incarnation, imbue weapon, immune to ballistic damage and
poison, keen vision, tongues; AL good, law; SV Fort +14, Ref +9, Will +12; AP
0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 11, Con 20, Int 11, Wis 16, Cha 18.

Skills: Escape Artist +14, Hide +14, Intimidate +18, Knowledge (theology and
philosophy) +14, Listen +17, Move Silently +14, Read/Write Celestial, Sense
Motive +17, Speak Celestial, Spot +17.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Cleave, Improved Initiative, Power Attack,
Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Aura of Menace (Su): A righteous aura surrounds the avenging angel. Any
hostile creature within a 20-foot radius of a gotthammer must succeed at a
Will save (DC 21) or take a –2 morale penalty on attacks, AC, and saves for
one day or until they successfully injure the gotthammer generating the aura.
A creature that has resisted or broken the effect cannot be affected again by
the gotthammer’s aura for one day.

Call/Dismiss Weapon (Su): Once per day, as a free action, a gotthammer may
call his shining greatsword to him. The weapon is normally hidden in a secure
location of the gotthammer’s choosing, but may be called from anywhere unless
carried by another living creature or in an area where magic does not
function. Once per day, as a full-round action, the gotthammer may dismiss the
sword to a location of his choosing.

Imbue Weapon (Su): Once per day, as a full-round action, a gotthammer may
imbue his weapon with holy power, dealing +2d6 points of damage to creatures
with an allegiance to evil. The effect lasts for 14 rounds.

Greater Incarnation (Su): A gotthammer can change his size as a move action,
becoming a 20-foot-tall (Huge) figure at will. His greatsword’s size increases
proportionately. In this form, the gotthammer’s statistics change as follows:
Defense 25, touch 8, flat-footed 25 (–2 size, +17 natural); Grap +31; Atk +24
melee (4d6+16/19–20, +3 greatsword); Full Atk +24/+19/+14 melee (4d6+12/19–20,
+3 greatsword); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; Str 29; Hide +6.

Immunities (Ex): Gotthammers are immune to ballistic damage and poison.

Acid and Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): A gotthammer ignores the first 10 points of
any attack that deals acid or fire damage.

Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Ex): A gotthammer ignores the first 10 points of
damage dealt by a nonmagical weapon.

Possessions: +3 greatsword

