---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Platonic
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Platonic

##  Platonic

A platonic is a powerful entity of Shadow devoted to a particular cause or
abstract concept. A platonic is compelled to protect and advance its cause at
every opportunity, which often brings it into contact with mortals whose goals
are more complex and nebulous.

Platonics can change their appearance at a whim, but most choose to appear as
handsome humans of either gender. If they aren’t bothering to disguise their
otherworldly origin, their skin has a faint luminescent quality.

Each platonic has an abstract principle to which it is fanatically devoted.
Platonics are beholden to what they call the Pact of the Boundless. A series
of rules that all platonics follow, the Pact mandates that when possible,
platonics won’t reveal their true nature to mundanes. Furthermore, platonics
are compelled to act as subtly as possible.

Platonics naturally speak all languages. They choose their height and weight,
but generally pick something within human norms.

###  Species Traits

Platonics have the following traits:

Aura of Menace (Su): A terrible aura surrounds platonics moved to anger or
violence. Any hostile creature within a 20- foot radius of an enraged platonic
must succeed at a Will save (DC 17 + platonic’s Charisma modifier) to resists
its effect. Those who fail suffer a –2 morale penalty on attacks and saves and
a –2 penalty to Defense for one day or until they successfully injure the
platonic who generated the aura. A creature that has resisted or broken the
effect cannot be affected again by that platonic’s aura for one day.

Spell-Like Abilities: At will—bestow curse, change self, detect magic, dispel
magic, fear, status, telekinesis, teleport. In addition, platonics generally
have four additional spell-like abilities (each usable at will) chosen from
the spell lists and three spelllike abilities (each usable once per day)
chosen from among the incantations. These seven spell-like abilities relate to
the platonic’s cause in some way, and they tend to be split evenly between
offense, defense, and utility abilities. A platonic’s spell-like abilities are
as the spells cast by a 10th-level Mage or Acolyte.

Tongues (Su): All platonics can speak with any creature that has a language,
as though using a tongues spell cast by a 10th-level caster. This ability is
always active.

Extradimensional Storage (Su): Platonics can store up to 50 pounds of gear
extradimensionally, sending it away or calling it to hand as a free action
once per round. They usually store weapons, cash, and other generally useful
goods in this manner.

Keen Vision (Ex): All platonics have low-light vision and 60-foot darkvision.

Immunities (Ex): Platonics are immune to cold, electricity, petrification, and
sonic attacks.

Energy Resistances (Ex): Platonics have acid resistance 20 and fire resistance
20.

Damage Reduction 30/+3 (Ex): A platonic ignores the first 30 points of damage
dealt by weapons of less than +3 enchantment.

Spell Resistance (Ex): A platonic has spell resistance equal to 10 + Hit Dice.

Fast Healing 10 (Ex): A platonic heals 10 points of damage each round so long
as it has at least 1 hit point.

Bonus Feat: Platonics gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency.

Sraosha (Platonic of Contract Enforcement)

Sraosha: CR 17; Medium outsider; HD 15d8+75; hp 142; Mas 20; Init +5; Spd 30
ft.; Defense 32, touch 17, flat-footed 27 (+5 Dex, +15 natural, +2
deflection); BAB +15; Grap +21; Atk +24 melee (1d8+12/19–20, +3 longsword) or
+21 melee (1d4+6, unarmed strike) or +23 ranged (2d8+3, +3 M–16A2) or +19
ranged (4d8+3, +2 M–16A2 burst); Full Atk +24/+19/+14 melee (1d8+12/19–20, +3
longsword) or +21/+16/+11 melee (1d4+6, unarmed strike) or +23/+18/+13 ranged
(2d8+3, +2 M–16A2) or +19/+14/+9 ranged (4d8+3, +2 M16A2 burst); FS 5 ft. by 5
ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ aura of menace, spell-like abilities, tongues,
extradimensional storage, keen vision, immunities, acid and fire resistance
20, damage reduction 30/+3, SR 25, fast healing 10; AL contract enforcement;
SV Fort +14, Ref +14, Will +15; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 21, Con 20, Int 20,
Wis 23, Cha 24.

Skills: Computer Use +7, Diplomacy +25, Intimidate +25, Investigate +23,
Knowledge (business) +23, Knowledge (civics) +23, Listen +24, Research +25,
Search +25, Sense Motive +24, Spot +24.

Feats: Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Burst Fire,
Combat Martial Arts, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons
Proficiency.

Spell-Like Abilities: At will—bestow curse (DC 21), break enchantment, change
self, detect magical aura, discern lies, dispel magic, fear (DC 21), hold
person (DC 20), status, telekinesis (DC 22), teleport, wall of force;
1/day—baleful polymorph (DC 24), greater dispel magic, teleport. Caster level
10th; save DC 17 + spell level.

Possessions: +3 longsword, +3 M16A2 (both items stored extradimensionally), +2
ring of protection.

Advancement: By character class.

