---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Advanced Classes 
excerpt: Arcane Arranger
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Advanced Classes ](arcana-d20-srd-advanced-classes-index) > Arcane Arranger

##  Arcane Arranger

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Charismatic hero basic
class, though other paths are possible.

A high Intelligence is also useful for the Arcane Arranger, since knowledge is
his province.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become an Arcane Arranger, a character must fulfill the
following criteria.

Skills: Diplomacy 6 ranks, Gather Information 6 ranks, any Knowledge (arcane
law, business, current events, popular culture, or streetwise) 6 ranks.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Arcane Arranger advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Arcane Arrangers gain 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Arcane Arrangers gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Arcane Arranger’s class skills are: Bluff (Cha), Computer Use (Int),
Decipher Script (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Forgery (Int), Gather Information
(Cha), Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge (arcane lore, business, current events,
popular culture, streetwise) (Int), Listen (Wis), Profession (Wis), Read/Write
Language (none), Repair (Int), Research (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak
Language (none).

Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Arcane Arranger </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Word on the street </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> False allegiance </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Shadow resources </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Pack rat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Expert in your field </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Up my sleeve </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> Up my sleeve </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +5 </td> </tr> </table>



###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Arcane Arranger advanced class.

**Word on the Street**

The Arcane Arranger filters information constantly and remembers everything.
Through regular contacts, gossip, internet chats, and other situations, he has
a deep knowledge of everyday things. The Arcane Arranger can make a Gather
Information check on general or specific information instantaneously, and
spends only an hour making a Gather Information check for restricted
information. Retries may be made under normal rules.

Protected information still requires 1d4+1 hours for a check.

The purchase DC for using Gather Information is reduced by 10.

**False Allegiance**

The Arcane Arranger fits in with whatever group he chooses to be with. At 2nd
level, the Arcane Arranger can successfully emulate an allegiance he knows
about. He gains the +2 circumstance bonus on Charisma-based skills when
dealing with an individual of the same allegiance. The allegiance and its
bonus is considered in effect until a check is failed, at which point the
false allegiance is revealed. Supernatural and spell-like abilities that
determine allegiance are not affected by the Arcane Arranger’s false
allegiance ability.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Arcane Arranger gets a bonus feat. The bonus
feat must be selected from the following list, and the Arcane Arranger must
meet all of the prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Arcane Skills, Armor Proficiency (light), Attentive, Builder, Combat
Expertise, Educated, Gearhead, Improved Disarm, Jack of All Trades, Renown,
Studious, Trustworthy, Windfall.

**Shadow Resources**

At 4th level, the Arcane Arranger is well-enough wired into the social system
to be able to get the names and numbers of individuals with particular
abilities and talents. Even if away from his home stomping ground a phone call
can produce a contact with the needed resource. Make a level check, adding all
Arcane Arranger levels and any levels of Charismatic Hero. The difficulty of
this task is based on how common the required abilities are:


<table> <tr> <td> Common Skill (Ride, Pilot, Treat Injury) </td> <td> DC 10 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Uncommon Skill (subgroups of other skills such as Knowledge (arcane lore) or Craft (structural)) </td> <td> DC 15 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Rare Skill (skills available for a particular class—Spellcraft, Psicraft, Use Magic Device) </td> <td> DC 20 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Specific Feat </td> <td> DC 20 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Class Feature (spellcasting, turn undead, psionics) </td> <td> DC 20 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Specific Combination of Skills, Feats, and Abilities (someone with Knowledge (business) and the ability to cast the auguryspell) </td> <td> DC 25 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Finding someone willing to perform activities secretly or illegally </td> <td> DC +5 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Finding someone with a specific level of ability </td> <td> Add desired ranks to DC </td> </tr> </table>



A successful check indicates that the individual is available, and the Arcane
Arranger knows about him. It does not guarantee the character contacted will
be willing to perform the requested service—the party requesting the service
must still negotiate for that person’s services. An unsuccessful check means
that no such individual is immediately known or available to the Arcane
Arranger. This does not negate trying again for a different skill, nor from
trying to locate a skill resource through more traditional methods. The
resource the Arcane Arranger knows about will have total ranks in the needed
skill of at least the Arcane Arranger’s total character level +3.

**Pack Rat**

At 5th level, the Arcane Arranger is considered to have considerable material
resources either at hand or easily and cheaply acquired. When making a Wealth
check to determine if a particular item is “at hand,” add the Arcane Arranger
class levels as a circumstance bonus.

**Expert in Your Field**

At 7th level, the Arcane Arranger is considered a master of connections, such
that his reputation precedes him in his dealings with others. The Arcane
Arranger gains a circumstance bonus equal to his Reputation bonus when making
skill checks that are directly involved with Gather Information and Diplomacy
skills. In addition, the Arcane Arranger may add his Reputation bonus on
Wealth checks for new purchases.

**Up My Sleeve**

At 8th level, the Arcane Arranger gains the supernatural ability to pull a
specific item out of thin air. As a move action, the Arcane Arranger may cause
any item currently in his possession (with a size no greater than Small) to
disappear into an extra-dimensional space. The item becomes impossible to
detect by any means, however detect magical aura spells will reveal a moderate
magical aura around the hand that last held the item. As a move action, the
Arcane Arranger can cause the item to reappear in his hand. The Arcane
Arranger may only hide one item at a time in this fashion.

At 10th level, the Arcane Arranger may use this ability to hide a single
object of up to Large size or up to three objects of up to Small size (each of
which may be retrieved individually).

