---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Retriever
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Retriever

##  Retriever

A typical retriever weighs about 6,500 pounds. It does not speak.

###  Species Traits

Retrievers have the following traits:

Construct: Retrievers are immune to mind-influencing effects as well as
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any
effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on objects
or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage,
ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.

Eye Rays (Su): A retriever’s eyes can produce four different magical rays with
a range of 100 feet. Each round, it can fire one ray, as a free action. An
individual ray is usable only once every 4 rounds. It can fire an eye ray in
the same round as it makes physical attacks. The save DC for all rays is 10 +
1/2 the retriever’s Hit Dice + the retriever’s Dexterity modifier. The four
eye effects are:

Fire: Deals 12d6 points of fire damage to the target (Reflex half).

Cold: Deals 12d6 points of cold damage to the target (Reflex half).

Electricity: Deals 12d6 points of electricity damage to the target (Reflex
half).

Petrification: The target must succeed on a Fortitude save or turn to stone
permanently.

Fast Healing 5 (Ex): Retrievers regain 5 hit points per round. Fast healing
stops working when the retriever is reduced to 0 hit points or fewer.

Find Target (Sp): When ordered to find an item or being, a retriever does so
unerringly, as though guided by discern location. The being giving the order
must have seen (or have an item belonging to) the creature to be found, or
have touched the object to be located. This ability is the equivalent of an
8th-level spell.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the retriever must hit with its bite
attack. If it wins the grapple check, it establishes a hold and grips the
opponent fast in its mouth. This is how it usually “retrieves” things.

Retriever: CR 11; Huge construct; HD 10d10+40; hp 95; Mas —; Init +3; Spd 50
ft.; Defense 21, touch 11, flat-footed 18 (–2 size, +3 Dex, +10 natural); BAB
+7; Grap +25; Atk +15 melee (2d4+10, claw) or +8 ranged touch (special, eye
ray); Full Atk +15 melee (2d4+10, 4 claws), +10 melee (1d6+5, bite) or +8
ranged touch (special, eye ray); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ
construct, eye rays (DC 18), fast healing 5, find target, improved grab; AL
evil, master; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 17, Con
—, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 1.

Skills: None.

Feats: None.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 11–15 HD (Huge); 16–30 HD (Gargantuan).

Advanced Retriever: CR 13; Gargantuan construct; HD 18d10+80; hp 179; Mas —;
Init +3; Spd 50 ft.; Defense 23, touch 9, flat-footed 20 (–4 size, +3 Dex, +14
natural); BAB +13; Grap +39; Atk +23 melee (2d6+14, claw) or +12 ranged touch
(special, eye ray); Full Atk +23 melee (2d6+14, 4 claws), +19 melee (1d8+7,
bite) or +12 ranged touch (special, eye ray); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15
ft.; SQ construct, eye rays (DC 22), fast healing 5, find target, improved
grab; AL evil, master; SV Fort +6, Ref +9, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 39, Dex
17, Con —, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 1.

Skills: None.

Feats: None.

Possessions: None.

