---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Advanced Classes 
excerpt: Archaic Weaponsmaster
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Advanced Classes ](arcana-d20-srd-advanced-classes-index) > Archaic Weaponsmaster

##  Archaic Weaponsmaster

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Strong hero basic class,
though other paths are possible, in particular Fast heroes for those
characters favoring archaic ranged weapons such as bows and crossbows.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become an Archaic Weaponsmaster, a character must fulfill the
following criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +3.

Skills: Knowledge (history) 4 ranks.

Feats: Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Weapon Focus with an archaic weapon.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Archaic Weaponsmaster advanced
class.

**Hit Die**

Archaic Weaponsmasters gain 1d10 hit points per level. The character’s
Constitution modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Archaic Weaponsmasters gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half
their character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Archaic Weaponsmaster’s class skills are as follows: Climb (Str), Craft
(mechanical, structural, visual art, writing) (Int), Handle Animal (Cha), Jump
(Str), Knowledge (art, history, theology and philosophy), Profession (Wis),
Research (Int), Ride (Dex), and Swim (Str).

Skill Points at Each Level: 3 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table:The Archaic Weaponsmaster </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Weapon specialization </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Imbue weapon +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Quick weapon draw </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Expert in your field </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Weapon stun </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Imbue weapon +2 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Increased weapon critical </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Archaic Weaponsmaster advanced class.

**Weapon Specialization**

At 1st level, the Archaic Weaponsmaster gains the Weapon Specialization feat.
She gains a +2 bonus on all damage rolls with a chosen archaic weapon. The
Archaic Weaponsmaster must have weapon focus in that weapon in order to gain
Weapon Specialization.

**Imbue Weapon**

At 2nd level, the Archaic Weaponsmaster may treat any archaic weapon she
wields and has Weapon Focus with as a +1 magic weapon for purposes of striking
creatures with damage reduction. This does not grant the weapon a +1 bonus,
but only allows it to circumvent damage reduction.

At 8th level, the Archaic Weaponsmaster may treat any archaic weapon she
wields and has Weapon Specialization with as a +2 magic weapon for purposes of
striking creatures with damage reduction. This does not grant the weapon a +2
bonus, but only allows it to circumvent damage reduction.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th levels, the Archaic Weaponsmaster gets a bonus feat. The
bonus feat must be selected from the following list, and the Archaic
Weaponsmaster must meet all of the prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Advanced Two-Weapon Fighting, Blind-Fight, Combat Expertise, Cleave, Combat
Reflexes, Dead Aim, Exotic Melee Weapon Proficiency, Far Shot, Great Cleave,
Improved Bull Rush, Improved Disarm, Improved Trip, Improved Two-Weapon
Fighting, Power Attack, Sunder, Two-Weapon Fighting, Weapon Focus. Quick
Weapon Draw

At 4th level, the Archaic Weaponsmaster gains the ability to draw her weapon
as a free action. This applies only to the weapons for which the Archaic
Weaponsmaster has Weapon Specialization.

**Expert In Your Field**

At 5th level, the Archaic Weaponsmaster is considered to be a master of her
particular weapon, whether this is as a scholar with a detailed knowledge of
the weapon’s history, or as a practitioner, such as a professional archer.
Starting with 5th level, the Archaic Weaponsmaster gains a circumstance bonus
equal to her Reputation bonus on skill checks that are directly involved with
her knowledge and proficiency with the weapon. Such skills would include
applicable Knowledge skills, as well as such social skills as Intimidate and
Bluff.

**Weapon Stun**

At 7th level, the Archaic Weaponsmaster can use his or her weapon to deal
nonlethal damage, without taking the –4 penalty on attack rolls. The Archaic
Weaponsmaster must have Weapon Specialization in the weapon to use it in this
fashion.

**Increased Weapon Critical**

The Archaic Weaponsmaster increases her threat range by one when using an
archaic weapon with which she has Weapons Specialization. A weapon that would
threaten a critical on 20 would now do so on a 19 or 20, and one which
threatens on a 19 or 20 would now do so on an 18 to 20. This ability works
with other abilities that increase threat ranges.

