---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Vivilor
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Vivilor

##  Vivilor

Vivilors are outsiders who come in response to the summon vivilor spell.
Vivilors generally have humanoid shapes, but spellcasters can summon
quadupedal or serpentine vivilors if they wish. In addition to their basic
statistics, a summoner chooses additional special qualities from Vivilor Menu
A or Vivilor Menu B (see below). A spellcaster can substitute two choices on
Vivilor Menu A for one choice on Vivilor Menu B, or one choice on Vivilor Menu
B for two choices on Vivilor Menu A.

Vivilors do not speak. However, a vivilor can understand the instructions of
its summoner and follows them to the letter.

###  Species Traits

All vivilors share the following traits:

Darkvision (Ex): A vivilor can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the vivilor
can function with no light at all.

Bonus Feat: Vivilors gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency. However,
they generally prefer to use their natural weapons in combat.

1st-level Vivilor: CR 1/3; Small outsider; HD 1d8; hp 4; Init +1; Spd 40 ft.;
Defense 13, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +1;
Grap –3; Atk +2 melee (1d4, slam); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4, slam); FS 5 ft. by
5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ one choice from Vivilor Menu A; AL summoner; SV Fort
+2, Ref +3, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha
6.

Skills: Hide +5, Listen +6, Spot +6.

Feats: Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency.

Advancement: None.

2nd-level Vivilor: CR 1; Medium outsider; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Init +0; Spd 40
ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flat-footed 14 (+4 natural); BAB +2; Grap +3; Atk
+3 melee (1d6+1, slam); Full Atk +3 melee (1d6+1, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 5 ft.; SQ two choices from Vivilor Menu A; AL summoner; SV Fort +4, Ref
+3, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 11, Con 13, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.

Skills: Climb +5, Jump +5, Listen +7, Spot +7.

Feats: Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency.

Advancement: None.

3rd-level Vivilor: CR 2; Medium outsider; HD 3d8+4; hp 17; Init +0; Spd 40
ft.; Defense 17, touch 10, flat-footed 17 (+7 natural); BAB +3; Grap +4; Atk
+4 melee (1d6+1, slam); Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+1, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 5 ft.; SQ three choices from Vivilor Menu A; AL summoner; SV Fort +4,
Ref +3, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 11, Con 13, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.

Skills: Climb +7, Jump +7, Listen +8, Spot +8.

Feats: Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency.

Advancement: None.

4th-level Vivilor: CR 4; Large outsider; HD 5d8+15; hp 37; Init –1; Spd 50
ft.; Defense 18, touch 8, flat-footed 18 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +10 natural); BAB
+5; Grap +14; Atk +9 melee (1d8+7, slam); Full Atk +9 melee (1d8+7, slam); FS
10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ one choice from Vivilor Menu B, damage
reduction 5/+1; AL summoner; SV Fort +7, Ref +3, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
21, Dex 9, Con 17, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.

Skills: Climb +13, Hide –5, Jump +13, Listen +12, Spot +12.

Feats: Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Iron Will.

Advancement: None.

5th-level Vivilor: CR 5; Large outsider; HD 7d8+21; hp 52; Init –1; Spd 50
ft.; Defense 21, touch 8, flat-footed 21 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +13 natural); BAB
+7/+2; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+7, slam); Full Atk +11/+6 melee (1d8+7,
slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ two choices from Vivilor Menu B,
damage reduction 5/+1; AL summoner; SV Fort +8, Ref +4, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0;
Str 21, Dex 9, Con 17, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.

Skills: Climb +16, Hide –5, Jump +16, Listen +15, Spot +15.

Feats: Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Iron Will.

Advancement: None.

Vivilor Menu A

Aquatic: The vivilor gains a swim speed of 60 feet. The vivilor can move in
water without making Swim checks and cannot drown in water. Bat Wings: The
vivilor gains a fly speed of 60 feet (average maneuverability).

Energy Resistance 5 (Ex): The vivilor gains resistance 5 to one energy type of
the summoner’s choosing: acid, fire, cold, electricity, or sonic/concussion.
Improved Ability Scores: The vivilor gains +2 Strength and +2 Constitution.

Quadrupedal: The vivilor has four limbs for locomotion, increasing its ground
speed by +20 feet. As a quadruped, the vivilor can also carry heavier loads
than bipedal forms.

Tentacles: The vivilor can slam opponents using tentacles that increase its
reach by +5 feet.

Tougher Skin: The vivilor’s natural armor bonus to Defense increases by +1.

Vivilor Menu B

Amorphous: The vivilor is immune to critical hits and massive damage. It
cannot be flanked.

Energy Resistance 15 (Ex): The vivilor gains resistance 15 to one energy type
of the summoner’s choosing: acid, fire, cold, electricity, or
sonic/concussion.

Extra Limbs: The vivilor gains three additional slam attacks during its full
attack action. These additional slams are treated as secondary attacks (–5
penalty to the attack roll).

Feathered Wings: The vivilor gains a fly speed of 90 feet (good
maneuverability).

Grasping Tentacles (Ex): The vivilor can slam opponents using tentacles that
increase its reach by +5 feet. On a successful hit, a tentacle can make a free
grapple check without provoking attacks of opportunity. A grappled opponent
takes automatic slam damage every round the grapple is maintained.

Metallic Skin: The vivilor’s natural armor bonus to Defense increases by +4.

Serpentine: The vivilor has a serpentine form. It deals double slam damage
against grappled foes.

