---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Organizations
excerpt: Silent Walkers
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Organizations](arcana-d20-srd-organizations-index) > Silent Walkers

##  Silent Walkers

This Japanese organization dates back to the early 1600s. On the surface it
seems like nothing more than a group dedicated to a particularly strict
martial arts form called Shizuka Ni Ugoku (“Moving In Silence”). Students are
taught a rigorous code of honor that is derived from the samurai code of
bushido, and dissent is not tolerated.

The truth of the matter is that the Silent Walkers use their martial training,
mental discipline, and philosophical beliefs to attempt to harness the hidden
power of the human mind. They believe that through the perfection of mind,
body, and spirit one can be granted the great honor and responsibility of
psionic powers. Furthermore, they believe that anyone who achieves this end
through any means other than their own is an affront before the gods.

Silent Walkers oppose natural psionicists, those who develop phychic powers
using other methods, and rogue former members of this organization they
collectively refer to as “oni.” The Silent Walkers believe it is their duty to
hunt down and slay all oni. In recent years, they have toned down their stance
on these matters. Although they still enforce them within the borders of Japan
(much to the dismay of the Japanese government), the Silent Walkers have
decided that psychics in the rest of the world are none of their concern.
However, if a former member of their society flees the country, the Silent
Walkers will spare no expense or effort to track him or her down. Once that
happens, elite psionic assassins are dispatched to ensure that the oni does
not teach any of the organization’s secret techniques to unworthy outsiders.

Another difficulty has arisen in the wake of the recent influx of Shadow
creatures. The word “oni” is most literally translated as “demon” or
“monster,” and the goals and positions of the Silent Walkers have often been
misinterpreted by some Shadowkind who think that the group wants to hunt them
down for no good reason.

The Silent Walkers is a closed society. It almost never accepts members who
are not Japanese, and certainly requires that all its members give up worldly
goods and cares to devote themselves to the perfection of mind, body, and
spirit. Members may not requisition any equipment, but the organization does
provide all necessities for its members.

**Nakamura Blades**

Hundreds of years ago, Nakamura Tenji, a swordsmith of legendary talent,
petitioned to join the Silent Walkers. In return for his admittance, he agreed
to make one hundred katana that combined both his old and his new training.
The results were weapons that were more than mere reflections of their owner’s
souls—they were gifted with life.

Each katana was unique, with a personality all its own. They are said to have
chosen names for themselves based on their abilities—names which they reveal
only to their owners. Known blade names include Blood Drinker, Reverence of
the New Moon, and Speaker of Truth. The blades speak telepathically with their
wielders, and will often offer advice and suggestions. They do not, however,
have the ability to control their wielder’s actions.

To determine the personality of a particular Nakamura blade, roll on the
following chart.


<table> <tr> <th> d20 </th> <th> Personality </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1 </td> <td> Bloodthirsty </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2–3 </td> <td> Violent </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 4–6 </td> <td> Angry </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 7–10 </td> <td> Impatient </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 11–14 </td> <td> Patient </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 15–17 </td> <td> Soothing </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 18–19 </td> <td> Insightful </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 20 </td> <td> Peace loving </td> </tr> </table>


Some Nakamura blades are more deadly than others, but all give immense power
to the people who wield them. To determine the abilities of a particular
Nakamura blade, roll once on each of the following charts.


<table> <tr> <th> d6 </th> <th> Enhancement Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1–3 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4–5 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 6 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> </table>
 
<table> <tr> <th> d% </th> <th> Special Ability </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 01–05 </td> <td> Item can Sense Motive (10 ranks) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 06–10 </td> <td> Wielder has free use of Combat Reflexes </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 11–15 </td> <td> Wielder has free use of Blind-Fight </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 16–20 </td> <td> Wielder has free use of Improved Initiative </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 21–25 </td> <td> Wielder has free use of Dodge </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 26–30 </td> <td> Wielder has free use of Mobility </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 31–35 </td> <td> Detect magical aura at will </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 36–40 </td> <td> Detect psionics at will </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 41–45 </td> <td> Wielder gains the evasion ability </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 46–50 </td> <td> Wielder can see invisible at will </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 51–55 </td> <td> Cure light wounds (1d8+5) on wielder 1/day </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 56–60 </td> <td> Feather fall on wielder 1/day </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 61–65 </td> <td> Wielder does not need to sleep </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 66–70 </td> <td> Wielder does not need to breathe </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 71–75 </td> <td> Spider climb for 20 minutes on wielder 1/day </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 76–80 </td> <td> Charm person (DC 11) on contact 3/day </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 81–85 </td> <td> Shield on wielder 3/day </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 86–88 </td> <td> Invisibility (wielder only, up to 30 minutes per use) 3/day </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 89–91 </td> <td> Fly (30 minutes per use) 2/day </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 92–94 </td> <td> Heal </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 95–97 </td> <td> True seeing at will </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 98–00 </td> <td> Passwall 3/day </td> </tr> </table>


Type: Weapon (magic); Caster Level: 10th; Purchase DC: 45*; Weight: 6 lb.

*Nakamura blades are both highly collectable works of art and much sought after magic weapons. The Silent Walkers have retained control of all but a dozen of them. From time to time, one appears on an auction block, but the organization usually steals it before it can be purchased. Any nonmember believed to own a Nakamura blade immediately gains the enmity of the Silent Walkers. 

