---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Organizations
excerpt: The Black Feathers
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Organizations](arcana-d20-srd-organizations-index) > The Black Feathers

##  The Black Feathers

The Black Feathers is a loose affiliation of organizations dedicated to
fighting the spread of urban sprawl. Some groups are against deforestation,
others are for the protection of wildlife, and still others simply pine for a
simpler way of life, but all of them have at their heart a desire to see
nature preserved.

The Black Feathers is an organization in only the loosest sense of the word.
Many presume this is because of the logistical nightmare in getting different
special interest groups to agree on agendas and action plans. However, it has
just as much to do with the fact that the Black Feathers lends equal support
to even the most violently radical groups (provided their goals are
sufficiently anti-industrial). The organization does not, though, actively
promote any of the agendas of its member groups. Rather, the Black Feathers
provide logistical support and supply information to their members. They
inform them of opportunities to promote their causes and keep them abreast of
the actions of friend and foe alike. In fact, the thing that this organization
does best is put like-minded individuals and groups together.

Very little is known about the actual workings of the Black Feathers. It is
unclear exactly how big the central organization is—even the most basic
research reveals that the names found in press releases and public statements
are false identities. Those who dig deeply enough, though, will find repeated
references to an actual person named Black Feather. Although the mundane media
considers her to be just another of the organization’s fictional
representatives, those familiar with Shadow culture can find out that Black
Feather is an elf who has been in this world for the past 10 years or so.

The Black Feathers is a very accepting organization. They will have heroes as
members so long as the heroes are actively promoting an ecological agenda.
However, heroes should be aware that not all the Black Feathers’ member groups
are especially scrupulous when it comes to public safety, in fact some are
downright dangerous. But if the heroes don’t much care what sorts of whackos
they associate with, the Black Feathers can serve as a wealth of information
and networking resources.

It is not possible to requisition any equipment from the Black Feathers
themselves. But the organization almost always can point the heroes to someone
who can fulfill their needs—for a price.

**Potions, Poultices, and Poisons**

The Black Feathers is as loose an organization as one is likely to find. It is
hard for members to call on timely aid from anyone other than their immediate
compatriots. However, member groups are generally more than happy to share
resources. Since the groups are universally devoted to ecological issues and
organic lifestyles, they have spent a good deal of time perfecting recipes for
various natural brews, cures, and irritants.

Members can send word through the grapevine that they need a particular known
potion or poison, and their contacts will do their best to find a supply. This
generally takes a while, and the requesting member must wait 1d6 days for any
news.

The GM may make an immediate ruling on whether or not the requested item is
available, or may choose to roll 2d6 and consult the following table. It is
left to the GM to decide whether the item is given freely, the characters must
pay the usual market price for the item, or the provider requires a higher
than normal price (or perhaps some special service) in exchange for the item.


<table> <tr> <th> Roll </th> <th> Result </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 2 </td> <td> Item unavailable </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 3–5 </td> <td> 1 dose of item available </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 6–8 </td> <td> 1d3 doses of item available </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 9–11 </td> <td> 1d6 doses of item available </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 12 </td> <td> unlimited supply of item available </td> </tr> </table>
 **Black Feather**

Several decades ago, a young elf passed through the Shadow into our world.
Used to the lush and unspoiled wilderness of her world, she was horrified by
the toxins poisoning the earth, water, and sky. Her heart trembled when she
witnessed unchecked urban sprawl and factories spewing choking clouds into the
environment. Falling back on her instincts, the elf known as Black Feather
fled into the little wilderness she could find.

Over time, Black Feather came to understand bits and pieces of this strange
new world. She came into contact with a band of nature lovers who were trying
to build a commune far from civilization. Her feral beauty and natural
charisma awed the band of environmentalists, who began to follow her hard-line
attitudes. Although Black Feather wanted to stay as far away from the cities
of man, she knew that it was just a matter of time before the nature that she
loved would be destroyed. She began learning more about our world and ways to
stop those that would harm it.

Black Feather began recruiting and training activists of all sorts. This group
calls themselves the Black Feathers as well, helping to confuse anyone that
hunts for either them or their leader. These recruits include everyone from
peace-loving activists and lobbyists, to radical, violent extremists. Black
Feather started a two-fold approach of public campaigning and clandestine eco-
terrorism.

Although disdainful of technology, Black Feather is coming to realize its
value and capabilities. She prefers locating and enlisting experts in various
technologies, especially hackers and chemists.

Black Feather is a stunning elf with raven-black hair and piercing blue eyes.
She dresses in simple, hand-made clothing bedecked with beads, feathers,
shells, and carved pieces of wood. She does not use guns, preferring to use a
magic longbow of exquisite quality and a brace of throwing knives.

Black Feather: Female Elf; Tough 2/Fast 3/Charismatic 3/Wildlord 6; CR 14;
Medium humanoid (elf, Shadowkind); HD 2d10 plus 3d8 plus 3d6 plus 6d8; hp 66;
Mas 10; Init +4; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 26, touch 25, flat-footed 22 (+4 Dex, +11
class, +1 ghostshirt); BAB +8; Grap +8; Atk +8 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed
strike) or +8 melee (1d4, knife) or +12 ranged (1d4, knife); Full Atk +8/+3
melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike), or +8/+3 melee (1d4, knife), or +12/+7
ranged (1d4, knife), or +15/+10 ranged (1d8+3, +2 longbow with +1 arrows); FS
5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Elf traits; AL Nature, Whitetooth, The Black
Feathers; SV Fort +7, Ref +10, Will +7; AP 13, Rep +7; Str 11, Dex 19, Con 12,
Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 17.

Skills: Climb +3, Handle Animal +17, Hide +16, Intimidate +7, Knowledge (earth
and life sciences) +6, Knowledge (behavioral sciences) +6, Listen +5, Move
Silently +12, Navigate +9, Profession +8, Read/Write Elven, Read/Write
English, Ride +14, Search +3, Speak English, Speak Elven, Spot +11, Survival
+12, Swim +5, Treat Injury +8.

Feats: Alertness, Animal Affinity, Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Dodge, Fleet of
Foot, Guide, Lightning Reflexes, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot,
Shot on the Run, Simple Weapon Proficiency, Stealthy, Track.

Talents (Charismatic Hero): Coordinate, inspiration.

Talents (Fast Hero): Evasion, uncanny dodge.

Talents (Tough Hero): Remain conscious.

Talents (Wildlord): Animal empathy, animal companion, fast climb, resist
venom, call companion, skill mastery (handle animal).

Possessions: +2 longbow, 12 +1 arrows, 4 knives, ghostshirt, medicine bundle,
casual outfit, backpack, 2- person dome tent, Jeep Wrangler.

**Whitetooth**

Whitetooth is Black Feather’s mountain lion animal companion. He is
fanatically loyal to his master and will defend her to the death.

Whitetooth: CR 6; Medium animal; HD 7d8+14; hp 55; Mas 15; Init +4; Spd 40
ft., 20 ft. climb; Defense 20, touch 20, flat-footed 15 (+5 Dex, +5 natural);
BAB +2; Grap +5; Atk +6 melee (1d3+1, claws); Full Atk +6 melee (1d6+3, bite),
+1 melee (1d3+1, claws), or +4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
Improved grab, low-light vision, rake, scent; AL Black Feather; SV Fort +5,
Ref +7, Will +2; AP 0, Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 21, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 6.

Skills: Balance +12, Climb +11, Hide +9, Listen +6, Move Silently +9, Spot +6.

Feats: Weapon Finesse (bite, claw).

