---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Zombie, Liquefied (Template)
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Zombie, Liquefied (Template)

##  Zombie, Liquefied (Template)

Liquefied zombies cannot speak. They are generally between 5 feet and 6 feet
tall, and they weigh about 150 pounds. Template Traits

“Liquefied zombie” is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal
creature other than a construct, elemental, ooze, plant, or undead (referred
to hereafter as the base creature). The creature must be in an advanced state
of decay, but not yet reduced to a skeletal corpse. The liquefied zombie uses
all the base creature’s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: A liquefied zombie’s Challenge Rating equals the base
creature’s CR + the following modifier based on size: Tiny or smaller +0,
Small +1, Medium +2, Large +4, Huge +5, Gargantuan +7, Colossal +10.

Type: The creature’s type changes to undead.

Hit Dice: Drop any Hit Dice gained from experience, triple the number of Hit
Dice left, and raise them to d12.

Speed: If the base creature could fly, its maneuverability rating as a
liquefied zombie drops to clumsy.

Defense: A liquefied zombie’s natural armor bonus to Defense increases to the
following, based on its size (but use the base creature’s natural armor bonus
if it’s higher): Small or smaller +0, Medium +1, Large +2, Huge +3, Gargantuan
+6, Colossal +10.

Attacks: The liquefied zombie retains all the natural attacks, manufactured
weapons, and weapon proficiencies of the base creature. A liquefied zombie
also gains a slam attack.

Damage: Natural and manufactured weapons deal damage normally. A slam attack
deals damage depending on the liquefied zombie’s size (but use the base
creature’s slam damage if it’s greater): Fine 1, Diminutive 1d2, Tiny 1d3,
Small 1d4, Medium 1d6, Large 1d8, Huge 2d6, Gargantuan 2d8, Colossal 4d6.

For purposes of Strength bonuses to damage, a slam attack attack is considered
a two-handed attack.

Special Qualities: A liquefied zombie loses all of the base creature’s
supernatural and spell-like qualities except for immunity or resistance to
specific energy types. A liquefied zombie may retain any or all of the base
creature’s extraordinary abilities at the GM’s discretion. In addition to
gaining the undead type, a liquefied zombie has the following special quality.

Liquefied Spew (Ex): Whenever a liquefied zombie is damaged in combat by
anything other than a bludgeoning weapon, some of the liquefied tissue spews
forth, covering everything within 5 feet of the liquefied zombie. The scalding
liquid deals 1d6 points of damage and exposes anyone it touches to the disease
of necrotizing faciitis.

Darkvision (Ex): Liquefied zombies have darkvision with a range of 60 feet.

Allegiances: A liquefied zombie loses any previous allegiances and adopts a
new allegiance to its creator. This allegiance cannot be broken.

Saves: A liquefied zombie’s saving throws are based on Hit Dice.

Action Points: A liquefied zombie does not acquire or amass action points. It
loses any action points gained by the base creature.

Reputation Bonus: A liquefied zombie has a +0 Reputation bonus.

Ability Scores: A liquefied zombie’s ability scores change as follows: Str +4,
Dex –2. Additionally, it has no Constitution or Intelligence score, its Wisdom
changes to 10, and its Charisma decreases to 1.

Skills: The liquefied zombie loses all skills.

Feats: The liquefied zombie loses all the base creature’s feats except the
following: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Exotic Weapons Proficiency, Personal
Firearms Proficiency, and Simple Weapons Proficiency. The liquefied zombie
gains the Toughness feat.

Human Liquefied Zombie: CR 2; Medium undead; HD 3d12+3 (includes Toughness
feat); hp 22; Init –1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 10, touch 9, flat-footed 10 (–1
Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d6+3, slam); Full Atk +2
melee (1d6+3, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, liquefied
spew, darkvision 60 ft.; AL creator; SV Fort +1, Ref +0, Will +3; AP 0; Rep
+0; Str 15, Dex 8, Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1.

Skills: None.

Feats: Toughness.

Otyugh Liquefied Zombie: CR 8; Large undead; HD 18d12+3 (includes Toughness
feat); hp 120; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 17, touch 9, flat-footed 17 (–1
size, +8 natural); BAB +9; Grap +19; Atk +14 melee (1d6+9, tentacle rake);
Full Atk +14 melee (1d6+6, 2 tentacle rakes), +9 melee (2d6+3 plus disease,
bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft. (15 ft. with tentacles); SQ undead,
liquefied spew, improved grab, constrict 1d6+6, disease, darkvision 60 ft.; AL
creator; SV Fort +6, Ref +6, Will +11; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 10, Con —,
Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1.

Skills: None.

Feats: Toughness.

