---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Advanced Classes 
excerpt: Glamourist
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Advanced Classes ](arcana-d20-srd-advanced-classes-index) > Glamourist

##  Glamourist

The fastest path into this advanced class is from a combination of the
Charismatic and Dedicated hero basic classes, though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become a Glamourist, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Bluff 6 ranks, Sense Motive 6 ranks.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Glamourist advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Glamourists gain 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Glamourists gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Glamourist’s class skills are as follows: Bluff (Cha), Concentration
(Con), Diplomacy (Cha), Decipher Script (Int), Disguise (Cha), Forgery (Int),
Gamble (Wis), Gather Information (Cha), Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge
(behavioral sciences, current events, popular culture, streetwise) (Int),
Listen (Wis), Perform (act, sing) (Cha), Profession (Wis), Read/Write Language
(none), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak Language (none), Spot (Wis).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table:The Glamourist </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Self-confidence </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Hidden motives </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Hidden allegiance </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Audience </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Daze </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Utterly convincing </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Charm person </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Glamourist advanced class.

**Self-Confidence**

The Glamourist may treat her Glamourist levels as Charismatic levels for any
talent where Charismatic levels are used (charm, favor, captivate, fast-talk,
dazzle, taunt).

**Hidden Motives**

At 2nd level, the Glamourist increases her ability to hide her motives and
intentions. She gains a circumstance bonus equal to her Glamourist levels when
using Bluff against a Sense Motive skill. In addition, the DC for Bluff checks
against her is increased by her levels of Glamourist.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Glamourist gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Glamourist must meet all of
the prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Alertness, Attentive, Builder, Confident, Creative, Deceptive, Improved
Initiative, Iron Will, Low Profile, Renown, Trustworthy, Windfall.

**Hidden Allegiance**

At 4th level, the Glamourist gains the supernatural ability to suppress her
loyalties, even from spells and abilities. In cases where such divinations are
made, the Glamourist gains a Will save (DC 15 + the character level of the
individual making the attempt) to negate the attempt. Negated attempts reveal
either no allegiance or a lack of the sought-for allegiance, as applicable for
the ability or spell.

**Audience**

At 5th level, the Glamourist may extend any Charismatic hero talents to a
number of targets equal to her total of Charismatic and Glamourist levels.
Individual targets are otherwise affected as described under the Charismatic
hero basic class.

**Daze**

At 7th level, the Glamourist gains the spell-like ability to daze an
individual of her choice. This ability may be used once per day, and functions
identically to the daze psionic power.

**Utterly Convincing**

At 8th level, the Glamourist is a master at convincing people. Whenever the
Glamourist spends an action point to improve some Charisma-based skill checks
(see below), she adds an additional 1d6 to the result. The skills that utterly
convincing applies to are: Bluff, Diplomacy, Disguise, Gather Information,
Intimidate, and Perform.

**Charm Person**

At 10th level, the Glamourist gains the spell-like ability to charm person
once per day. This ability functions identically to the charm person psionic
ability.

