---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Living Dumpster
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Living Dumpster

##  Living Dumpster

Living dumpsters do not speak. They weigh between 500 and 1,000 pounds,
depending on how much trash they have inside them.

###  Species Traits

Living dumpsters have the following traits:

Construct: Living dumpsters are immune to mind-influencing effects, as well as
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any
effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on objects
or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage,
ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.

Wheels: Because the living dumpster relies on small caster wheels for
locomotion, its speed is reduced by half on very soft or soft surfaces such as
mud or thick lawns. It can’t negotiate stairs, although it can hop up or down
a curb without difficulty.

Wall Smash (Ex): If a living dumpster bull rushes a foe against a wall, it can
make a free slam attack against that foe. If the attack succeeds, it deals
2d8+18 points of damage.

Swallow Whole (Ex): If a living dumpster successfully grapples a creature
smaller than itself, it can attempt to swallow the creature. If the living
dumpster succeeds at a second grapple check, the grappled opponent is
swallowed whole. Swallowed characters take 1d8+9 points of damage per round
from the vigorous shaking of the living dumpster. The swallowed creature can
attack the living dumpster from inside using either its natural weapons or a
Small, Tiny, or Diminutive weapon. A living dumpster can hold two Medium
creatures (or four Small creatures) at a time.

Darkvision (Ex): Living dumpsters can see in the dark up to 60 feet.
Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and
living dumpsters can function with no light at all.

Living Dumpster: CR 5; Large construct; HD 8d10+20; hp 64; Mas —; Init –2; Spd
30 ft.; Defense 19, touch 7, flat-footed 19 (–2 Dex, –1 size, +12 natural);
BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+9, slam); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+9,
slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, wheels, wall smash
2d8+18, swallow whole, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +0, Will
+2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 7, Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1.

Skills: Hide –6.

Feats: None.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 9–18 HD (Large); 19–24 HD (Huge).

Advanced Living Dumpster: CR 9; Huge construct; HD 23d10+40; hp 166; Mas —;
Init –2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 20, touch 5, flat-footed 20 (–3 Dex, –2 size, +15
natural); BAB +18; Grap +36; Atk +26 melee (2d6+15, slam); Full Atk +26 melee
(2d6+15, slam); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, wheels, wall
smash 4d6+30, swallow whole (holds 4 Medium creatures or 8 Small creatures),
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +7, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 30,
Dex 5, Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1.

Skills: Hide –11.

Feats: None.

Possessions: None.

