---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Rat, Dire
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Rat, Dire

##  Rat, Dire

###  Species Traits

Dire rats have the following traits:

Disease (Ex): Dire rats carry a Shadow disease called filth fever. Filth
fever—bite: Fortitude save (DC 12) negates; incubation period 1d3 days;
initial and secondary damage 1d3 Dex and 1d3 Con.

Darkvision (Ex): Dire rats can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and dire rats can
function with no light at all.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows the dire rat to detect approaching enemies,
sniff out hidden foes, and track by scent.

Skill Bonuses: Dire rats gain a +8 species bonus on Swim checks. Dire rats
apply their Strength or Dexterity bonus (whichever is higher) to Climb and
Swim checks.

Bonus Feat: Dire rats gain the bonus feat Weapon Finesse (bite). Advanced dire
rats lose this feat if their Strength bonus exceeds their Dexterity bonus.

Dire Rat: CR 1/3; Small animal; HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Mas 12; Init +3; Spd 40 ft.,
climb 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +1
natural); BAB +0; Grap –4; Atk +4 melee (1d4, bite); Full Atk +4 melee (1d4,
bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ disease, darkvision 60 ft., scent;
AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 17, Con 12,
Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 4.

Skills: Climb +14, Hide +11, Move Silently +6, Swim +11.

Feats: Weapon Finesse (bite).

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 2–3 HD (Small); 4–6 HD (Medium); 7–12 HD (Large); 13–24 HD
(Huge).

Advanced Dire Rat: CR 4; Large animal; HD 9d8+36; hp 76; Mas 18; Init +1; Spd
40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 13, touch 10, flat-footed 12 (–1 size, +1 Dex,
+3 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+9, bite); Full Atk +11 melee
(1d8+9, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ disease, darkvision 60
ft., scent; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex
13, Con 18, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 4.

Skills: Climb +18, Hide +5, Move Silently +4, Swim +15.

Feats: None.

Possessions: None.

