---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Advanced Classes 
excerpt: Shadowjack
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Advanced Classes ](arcana-d20-srd-advanced-classes-index) > Shadowjack

##  Shadowjack

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Smart hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become a Shadowjack, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Computer Use 6 ranks, Craft (electronic) 6 ranks, and Disable Device 6
ranks.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Shadowjack advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Shadowjacks gain 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Shadowjacks gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Shadowjack’s class skills are as follows: Computer Use (Int), Craft
(electronic, mechanical, writing) (Int), Decipher Script (Int), Disable Device
(Int), Forgery (Int), Gamble (Wis), Gather Information (Cha), Intimidate
(Cha), Knowledge (arcane lore, current events, history, popular culture,
technology) (Int), Profession (Wis), Read/Write Language (none), Repair (Int),
Research (Int), Speak Language (none), Search (Int).

Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Shadowjack </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Read/write code </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Online presence </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Shadowjack abilities </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Shadowjack abilities </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> Shadowjack abilities </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> Shadowjack abilities </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> Virtual incantations </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Shadowjack advanced class.

**Read/Write Code**

Beginning at 1st level, the Shadowjack can understand both the nature of raw
computer code and what the program is intended to accomplish when implemented.
On a successful Decipher Script check (DC 10 + Computer Use skill modifier of
the code’s author), the Shadowjack can determine both the function of the
program and any bugs or potential weak points in the design. If weak points
are found, the Shadowjack gains a +2 insight bonus on Computer Use checks
attempting to degrade the program.

**Online Presence**

Beginning at 2nd level, when attempting to use a Charism-abased skill such a
Bluff, Intimidate, Diplomacy, or Gather Information in an online situation,
the Shadowjack adds any Shadowjack levels as a circumstance bonus.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Shadowjack gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Shadowjack must meet all of
the prerequisites for the feat to select it. Alertness, Arcane Skills,
Builder, Cautious, Educated, Gearhead, Lightning Reflexes, Low Profile,
Meticulous, Renown, Studious, Windfall.

**Shadowjack Abilities**

Beginning at 4th level, the Shadowjack gains the following abilities:

Electronic Empathy: The Shadowjack gains a +2 competence bonus when repairing
or disabling electronic devices. This is in addition to any synergy bonuses
for related skills.

Careful Progress: When the Shadowjack attempts to defeat computer security,
the administrator is alerted only if the Shadowjack fails his Computer Use
check by 10 or more. At 5th level, the Shadowjack gains the following
abilities:

False Trail: When covering his electronically tracks through the internet, the
Shadowjack can lay in a false trail. With a successful DC 25 Computer Use
check, the Shadowjack imposes a –5 penalty on any attempt to trace him (as
described in the Defend Security function of the Computer Use skill). If the
trace fails by 10 or more points, the tracker follows the Shadowjack’s false
trail to an innocent internet address. If the trace fails by less than 10
points, the tracker realizes the trail is bogus and gives up.

Install Backdoor: After successfully breaking into a specific computer system,
the Shadowjack can install a “backdoor” to the system. A backdoor is a piece
of code that makes it easier for the Shadowjack to break into that particular
system in the future. Writing and installing the program requires a Computer
Use check (see chart below), but once successfully installed it automatically
defeats that systems’ security upon return trips—the Shadowjack no longer
needs to make Computer Use checks to enter that system.

Level of Security DC Minimum 25 Average 30 Exceptional 40 Maximum 45

It is important to keep backdoors hidden from the system administrator, who
will always be on the lookout for such invasions. A backdoor automatically
allows the Shadowjack entrance to a particular system, but every time he uses
it he must make an opposed Computer Use check against the administrator.
Failure means the backdoor is discovered and will be deleted before the next
time the Shadowjack returns.

At 7th level, the Shadowjack gains the following abilities:

Online Spell Resistance: The Shadowjack becomes harder to hurt by spells and
spell-like abilities sent through email and electronic devices, including the
Techno Mage’s online spellcasting ability as well as magical items which use
electronic components. The Shadowjack gains Spell Resistance equal to 10 + his
Shadowjack levels. This is a supernatural ability.

Improved Degradation: The Shadowjack’s attempts to alter and degrade existing
programming get more insidious. The degradation is installed as normal (as
described in the Degrade Programming function of the Computer Use skill).
However, unless the Computer Use check to fix the degraded program exceeds the
DC by 5, the degradation returns within 6 hours—this happens automatically,
the Shadowjack does not have to make a second check.

At 8th level, the Shadowjack gains the following abilities:

Passfirewall: When the Shadowjack attempts to defeat computer security, the
administrator is alerted only if the Shadowjack rolls a 1 on his Computer Use
check.

Walking Database: The Shadowjack gains the supernatural ability to recall vast
amounts of information gleaned while traveling through cyberspace. He may
spend an action point and then substitute his Computer Use score instead of a
Knowledge score for the purposes of one check.

**Virtual Incantations**

At 10th level, the Shadowjack gains the spell-like ability to use a computer
to cast incantations. This process reduces the number of secondary casters
required by 10, and may allow the Shadowjack to shorten the casting time. If
he is successful at a Computer Use check with a DC equal to the DC for the
incantation’s skill check, the casting time is reduced to 1/10th of its
original length. All other requirements for the incantation (components,
saving throws, backlash, and so forth) remain the same.

