---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Incantations
excerpt: Subjugate Outsider
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Incantations](arcana-d20-srd-incantations-index) > Subjugate Outsider

##  Subjugate Outsider

Conjuration (Calling)

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 33, 6 successes; Failure: Two
consecutive failed skill checks; Components: V, S, M, SC, B; Casting Time: 6
hours (minimum); Range: 55 ft.; Target: One outsider of up to CR 6 (see text);
Duration: Instantaneous (see text); Saving Throw: Will negates (DC 16 +
caster’s Charisma modifier); Spell Resistance: Yes

Casting this incantation attempts a dangerous act: to lure a creature from
another dimension or plane to a specifically prepared trap. The called
creature is held in the trap until it agrees to perform one service in return
for its freedom.

The trap is a ward similar to a magic circle spell, but focused inward. The
type of creature to be bound must be known and stated. If it has a specific,
proper, or given name, this must be uttered during the incantation. If you
wish to call a vivilor with this incantation, you can choose its abilities
just as if you had cast the summon vivilor spell.

The target creature must attempt a Will saving throw. If the saving throw
succeeds, the creature resists the incantation. If the saving throw fails, the
creature is immediately drawn to the trap (spell resistance does not keep the
creature from being called). The creature can escape from the trap with a
successful spell resistance roll or a successful Charisma check (DC 20 + the
caster’s Charisma modifier). It can try each method once per day. If it breaks
loose, it can flee or attack you.

If the creature does not break free of the trap, you can keep it bound for as
long as you dare. You can attempt to compel the creature to perform a service
by describing the service and perhaps offering some sort of reward. You make a
Charisma check opposed by the creature’s Charisma check. The GM then assigns a
bonus based on the service and reward, from +0 to +6. This bonus applies to
your Charisma check. If the creature wins the opposed check, it refuses
service. New offers, bribes, and the like can be made or the old ones
reoffered every 24 hours. This can be repeated until the creature promises to
serve, until it breaks free, or until you decide to get rid of it by means of
some other spell or incantation. Impossible demands or unreasonable commands
are never agreed to. If you roll a 1 on the Charisma check, the creature
breaks free of the trap and can escape or attack you.

Once the requested service is completed, the creature need only so inform you
to be instantly sent back whence it came. The creature might later seek
revenge. If you assign some open-ended task that the creature cannot complete
though its own actions, the incantation remains in effect for a maximum of ten
days, and the creature gains an immediate chance to break free. Note that a
clever recipient can subvert some instructions.

Options: If you call an outsider of CR 11 to CR 15, the DC for the incantation
is increased by +4. If you call an outsider of CR 16 or higher, the DC for the
incantation is increased by +8.

Material Component: Various rare alchemical pigments (purchase DC 25), which
are used to trace a series of symbols in a circle on the floor. This circle is
the trap for the outsider.

Secondary Casters: 12 required (not including primary caster).

Backlash: All casters (primary and secondary) receive one negative level
(Fortitude save, DC 15, to remove).

Failure: Attack. The called outsider immediately attacks the casters, and is
thereafter roams the world freely for 10 days before returning to its home
plane or dimension.

