---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Dwarf
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Dwarf

##  Dwarf

Dwarves speak Dwarven. Those of particular intelligence (and good breeding)
may speak other languages, including the following Shadow languages: Giant,
Gnome, Goblin, Orc, Terran, and Undertongue.

###  Species Traits

Dwarves have the following traits:

Speed: Dwarves have a base speed of 20 feet. However, dwarves can move at this
speed even when wearing medium or heavy armor or when carrying a medium or
heavy load (unlike other creatures, whose speed is reduced in such
situations).

Special Combat Bonuses: Dwarves gain a +1 species bonus on attack rolls
against bugbears, goblins, orcs, and other goblinoids. Dwarves also gain a +4
dodge bonus to Defense against creatures of the giant type. If a dwarf loses
his positive Dexterity bonus to Defense (such as when flatfooted), this dodge
bonus is lost.

Stability: Dwarves gain a +4 species bonus on ability checks to resist bulll
rush and trip attempts when standing on the ground (but not when climbing,
flying, riding, or otherwise not standing firmly on the ground).

Darkvision (Ex): Dwarves can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and dwarves can
function with no light at all.

Saving Throw Bonuses: Dwarves are highly resistant to toxins and innately
resistant to magic. They gain a +2 species bonus on saving throws against
poisons, spells, and spell-like abilities.

Skill Bonuses: Dwarves gain a +2 species bonus on Search checks to notice
unusual stonework, new construction, unsafe surfaces, ceilings, and the like.
A dwarf who merely passes within 10 feet of such exceptional construction can,
as a free action, make a Search check (DC 15) as though he were actively
searching for such.

Dwarves are naturally skilled mechanics and engineers. They gain a +2 species
bonus on Craft (mechanical), Craft (structural), and Repair checks.

Bonus Feat: Dwarves gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency. Dwarves
may treat dwarven urgroshes and dwarven waraxes as archaic weapons instead of
exotic weapons.

Dwarf: CR 1/2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Mas 13; Init +0;
Spd 20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 10, flatfooted 10; BAB +0; Grap +0; Atk +0 melee
(1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/x4, pickaxe); Full Atk +0
melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/x4, pickaxe) or +0
ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ special combat bonuses, stability,
darkvision 60 ft.; AL varies; SV Fort +3, Ref +0, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
11, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 8.

Skills: Craft (mechanical) +5, Craft (structural) +4, Listen +2, Read/Write
Dwarven, Repair +3, Speak Dwarven, Spot +2.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Educated (mechanical, structural).

Possessions: Pickaxe, casual clothes, cell phone, multipurpose tool.

Advancement: By character class.

Dwarf Dedicated Hero 1/Tough Hero 1: CR 2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD
1d6+3 plus 1d10+3 plus 1 (robust); hp 18; Mas 17; Init –1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense
12, touch 11, flat-footed 12 (–1 Dex, +2 class, +1 leather jacket); BAB +0;
Grap +1; Atk +1 melee (1d3+1, brass knuckles) or +0 melee (1d10+1/x3, dwarven
waraxe); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3+1, brass knuckles) or +1 melee (1d10+1/x3,
dwarven waraxe) or –1 ranged (2d6, dynamite stick); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
ft.; SQ special combat bonuses, stability, darkvision 60 ft.; AL varies; SV
Fort +5, Ref –1, Will +3; AP 1; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 8, Con 17, Int 13, Wis 14,
Cha 8.

Skills: Craft (mechanical) +6, Craft (structural) +6, Drive +1, Knowledge
(art) +3, Knowledge (current events) +3, Listen +6, Profession (any one) +6,
Read/Write Dwarven, Read/Write Language (any one), Repair +3, Speak Dwarven,
Speak Language (any one), Spot +6, Survival +9.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Educated (mechanical, structural), Simple
Weapons Proficiency.

Talent (Dedicated Hero): Skill emphasis (Survival).

Talent (Tough Hero): Robust.

Possessions: Leather jacket, dwarven waraxe, 6 sticks of dynamite, brass
knuckles, casual clothes, cell phone, multipurpose tool, lighter.

Advancement: By character class.

