---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Advanced Classes 
excerpt: Street Warrior
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Advanced Classes ](arcana-d20-srd-advanced-classes-index) > Street Warrior

##  Street Warrior

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Strong hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become a Street Warrior, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +3.

Skills: Knowledge (streetwise) 6 ranks.

Feats: Streetfighting, Brawl.

Other: Before or upon taking the Street Warrior advanced class, the Street
Warrior must have an allegiance to some urban area or group. This could
include a particular neighborhood or organization that would be suitable for
an urban-oriented character.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Street Warrior advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Street Warriors gain 1d10 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Street Warriors gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Street Warrior’s class skills are as follows: Bluff (Cha), Diplomacy
(Cha), Disable Device (Int), Drive (Dex), Gamble (Wis), Gather Information
(Cha), Hide (Dex), Intimidate (Cha), Investigate (Int), Jump (Str), Knowledge
(popular culture, streetwise, tactics) (Int), Move Silently (Dex), Profession
(Wis), Sense Motive (Wis), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis)

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Street Warrior </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Urban survival </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Improvised weapons </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Street cred </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Improved streetfighting </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Weapon specialization </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +8 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Improvised weapon damage </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +9 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +10 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Advanced streetfighting </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Street Warrior advanced class.

**Urban Survival**

At 1st level, the Street Warrior gains a +4 competence bonus on Survival
checks in urban areas, which includes the ability to follow tracks, hunt feral
animals, find (or lose) individuals in urban maze, find safe places to crash,
and avoid hazards peculiar to a city environment.

**Improvised Weapons**

At 2nd level, the Street Warrior becomes an expert at using improvised
weapons. The Street Warrior does not take a –4 penalty on attack rolls when
wielding an improvised weapon.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Street Warrior gets a bonus feat. The bonus
feat must be selected from the following list, and the Street Warrior must
meet all of the prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (Light), Combat Throw,
Defensive Martial Arts, Elusive Target, Knockout Punch, Improved Brawl,
Improved Combat Throw, Improved Feint, Improved Knockout Punch, Personal
Firearms Proficiency, Weapon Focus, Unbalance Opponent.

**Street Cred**

At 4th level, the Street Warrior adds his Reputation bonus to Charisma skill
checks in his home location, or in situations involving others of his chosen
allegiance(s). These skills include Bluff, Diplomacy, Gather Information, and
Intimidate.

**Improved Streetfighting**

The extra damage provided by the Streetfighting feat increases to 1d4+2.

**Weapon Specialization**

At 7th level, the Street Warrior gains weapon specialization with a specific
melee weapon (including unarmed strike). The weapon must be one in which the
Street Warrior has a Weapon Focus feat. He gets a +2 bonus on all damage rolls
with the chosen weapon. Should the Street Warrior not have a Weapon Focus, he
does not get this ability until such a time that he gains Weapon Focus.

**Improvised Weapon Damage**

At 8th level, the Street Warrior’s attacks with improvised weapons deal more
damage. He treats an improvised weapon as one size category larger than it is
for the purpose of determining the damage it deals.

**Advanced Streetfighting**

The extra damage provided by the Streetfighting feat increases to 1d4+4.

