---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Incantations
excerpt: Create Clone
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Incantations](arcana-d20-srd-incantations-index) > Create Clone

##  Create Clone

Necromancy

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 32, 7 successes, and Knowledge (earth
and life sciences) DC 32, 1 success; Failure: Two consecutive failed skill
checks; Components: V, S, M, F, XP; Casting Time: 8 hours (minimum) and see
text; Range: Touch; Effect: One clone; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw:
None; Spell Resistance: No

This incantation makes an inert duplicate of a creature. If the original
individual has been slain, the original’s soul transfers to the clone,
creating a replacement. The original’s physical remains, should they still
exist, become inert matter and cannot thereafter be restored to life.

To create the duplicate, you must have a piece of flesh (not hair, nails,
scales, or the like) taken from the original’s living body, with a volume of
at least 1 cubic inch. The piece of flesh need not be fresh, but it must be
kept from rotting (through periodic applications of cure minor wounds or more
advanced medical means). Prior to the incantation being cast, the duplicate
body must be grown in a laboratory for 2d4 months.

When the clone is completed, if the original is dead, the original’s soul
enters the clone. The clone has the personality, memories, skills, and levels
the original had at the time the piece of flesh was taken. However, the
replacement must be at least one level lower than the original was at the time
of death. If the original was 1st level, the clone’s Constitution score drops
by 1; if this would give the clone a Constitution score of 0, the incantation
fails. If the original creature has lost levels since the flesh sample was
taken and died at a lower level than the clone would otherwise be, the clone
is at the level at which the original died.

The spell duplicates only the original’s body and mind, not its equipment.

A duplicate can be grown while the original still lives, or when the original
soul is somehow unavailable, but the resulting creature is merely a soulless
bit of inert flesh, which rots if not somehow preserved.

Material Component: The piece of flesh and various laboratory supplies
(purchase DC 25).

Focus: Genetics laboratory (purchase DC 30).

Experience Point Cost: 500 XP.

Failure: Betrayal, and possibly reversal as well. If the caster and cloned
creature were allies or neutral toward one another, then the cloned creature
gains allegiances opposite the ones it once had. If the caster and cloned
creature were enemies, then each one gains the allegiances the other one had
(although neither one knows the other has new allegiances).

