---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Organizations
excerpt: Markova Enterprises, Intl.
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Organizations](arcana-d20-srd-organizations-index) > Markova Enterprises, Intl.

##  Markova Enterprises, Intl.

If knowledge is power, then Markova Enterprises may well be the most powerful
organization on earth. This media conglomerate owns major newspapers in every
major city in Europe and North America, runs fifteen different cable
television networks, syndicates radio and network television programs in
twenty different languages, and produces blockbuster movies from studios in
Hollywood, Hong Kong, New Delhi, and Paris. And all that is just the tip of
the proverbial iceberg. The company is also deeply involved in several major
websites and online services, and employs dozens of software design houses to
work on proprietary programs.

Owned and managed by the international “Queen of the Media,” Anastasia
Markova, Markova Enterprises plays a bigger part in many people’s lives than
their own families do. Their stated goal is to give their audience “just what
you want.” Detractors point out that this mission statement says nothing about
production quality, intellectual or moral content, or even factual accuracy.
But this does not seem to have hurt the company’s ratings (or stock value).

Mundanes see Anastasia Markova as a beautiful, dusky skinned, twenty-something
jet setter, but anyone with knowledge of Shadowkind knows that she is in fact
a drow who is at least 125 years old. Of course, that makes many suspicious of
Anastasia’s motives and her company’s actions, but to this day M.E. Intl. has
never been involved in anything even marginally illegal. It does, however,
specialize in programming of exceptionally questionable taste.

The thing that really makes Markova Enterprises different from other media
conglomerates, though, is the fact the its subsidiaries pay attention to
Shadow culture. They do not report on such things to mundane audiences, but
they do keep careful eyes on people, creatures, and events in Shadow
communities. And reporters from M.E.-owned concerns can usually be found at
the scene of any major Shadow-related incident. Heroes would be surprised to
know exactly how much personal information on them is stored in the M.E. news
morgue. It seems unlikely that any hero would be working directly for
Anastasia Markova (who is attended mainly by other drow), but anyone with an
occupation related to the media might well find themselves working for Markova
Enterprises. In most respects, though, the organization is no different than
any other media interest. It is only if a hero’s activities draw the eye of
the Queen that things might become uncomfortable.

**The M.E. Morgue**

Every news organization maintains a morgue—the place where it keeps file of
reference photos, videos, archives of old stories, and significant reports and
dossiers that never made it into print. The Markova Enterprises morgue puts
all others to shame. It contains an level of detailed information that makes
most governmental intelligence agencies jealous.

The key to accessing this trove of facts and images is a Markova Enterprises
Press Pass. While much of the information is stored on computer, the system is
isolated from all external networks. One must physically go to the morgue to
access it, and no one gets into the building or past the five guard stations
without showing proper identification.

However, for those who do manage to make it into the morgue, the information
sky is the limit. Using the M.E. morgue provides a +10 equipment bonus on all
Research and Knowledge checks (for any Knowledge category). Those using this
resource must take careful notes, though, because there are no printers in the
morgue, and no photographs or video tapes are allowed out without a senior
editor’s approval.

While access to such a vast quantity of material is a blessing, it also has
its drawbacks. The sheer volume of raw data sometimes makes it very time
consuming to find a particular piece of information. Apart from any Research
or Knowledge checks required to find information, anyone using the M.E. morgue
must make an additional Research check to determine how long the search took.


<table> <tr> <th> DC </th> <th> Time Required </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 9 or less </td> <td> 1d6 + 6 hours with no information found </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10 –14 </td> <td> 1d6 + 6 hours </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 15 –19 </td> <td> 1d6 hours </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 20 –24 </td> <td> 3d10 + 30 minutes </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 25 –29 </td> <td> 2d10 + 20 minutes </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 30 + </td> <td> 1d10 + 10 minutes </td> </tr> </table>

 **Anastasia Markova**

The halls of government and ivory towers of finance are not the only places
that hold power. In the modern era, information, entertainment, and the media
have begun to trump the others in terms of raw might. The self-titled “Queen
of the Media” is Anastasia Markova, a domineering, awe-inspiring woman of
incredible beauty, charisma, and ruthlessness.

In truth, Anastasia is a drow that passed through Shadow early in the 20th
century. She quickly surmised that information was to become the “currency” of
the coming era. She used her charm, cunning, and utter lack of scruples to
climb the social ladder and gain seats on the boards of several newspapers and
periodicals (the only mass media of their time). As years passed, she gained
control then ownership of the companies, and used their financial backing to
begin other businesses. She has invested vast amounts of money in every up-
and-coming communication medium since the radio until now Anastasia sits at
the head of a media empire that spans print, television, radio, recordings,
and the Internet. She uses her influence to manipulate and guide the masses,
reaping vast fortunes that she passes along to her clan of drow kin.

In her public persona, Anastasia is regal, cultured, and very chic. Her suave,
businesslike manner is tempered with a disarming elegance that can tie the
tongues of even the most glib conversationalist. She is the undisputed
matriarch of a small band of drow that act as her servants and minions. Among
her many enemies, it is whispered that she has made pacts with dark powers and
has lost her soul in a web of lies, deceit, and betrayal. In truth, she is a
dark power, and the webs are all of her own spinning. Creatures of Shadow know
her secret, but not all of them are happy to see a drow achieve such success
Anastasia appears as a stunning woman in her late 20s. She has the dusky skin
and brilliant eyes of a drow. Her snow-white hair falls to her ankles, usually
worn up in an elaborate and expensive hairstyle. She dresses in the cutting-
edge of fashion and generally wears several magic items discretely disguised
as jewelry. As a drow, she cannot abide sunlight and is never seen out during
the day. However, the hip crowd, who rarely see daylight themselves, never
questions her nocturnal lifestyle.

Anastasia Markova: Female Drow, Fast Hero 4/Dedicated Hero 5/Charismatic Hero
9; CR 20; Medium humanoid (Drow, Shadowkind); HD 4d8–4 plus 5d6–5 plus 9d6–9;
hp 69; Mas 8; Init +7; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 24, touch 24, flatfooted 21 (+3
Dex, +11 class); BAB +10; Grap +9; Atk +9 melee (1d3–1 nonlethal, unarmed
strike); Full Atk +9 melee (1d3–1 nonlethal, unarmed strike), or +15/+10
ranged (2d6+2, +2 SITES M9), or +16/+11 ranged (2d6+2, +2 MP5); FS 5 ft. by 5
ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Darkvision 120 ft., light blindness, spell immunities, SR
29; AL any; SV Fort +7, Ref +10, Will +15; AP 9; Rep +10; Str 9, Dex 17, Con
8, Int 16, Wis 18, Cha 20.

Skills: Bluff +20, Computer Use +8, Craft (visual arts) +13, Craft (writing)
+13, Diplomacy +22, Disguise +12, Drive +7, Gamble +13, Gather Information
+20, Intimidate +15, Knowledge (business) +18, Knowledge (current events) +14,
Knowledge (popular culture) +18, Knowledge (streetwise) +11, Profession +21,
Read/Write Elven, Read/Write English, Read/Write French, Read/Write Infernal,
Read/Write Spanish, Read/Write Undertongue, Sense Motive +16, Speak Drow Sign
Language, Speak Elven, Speak French, Speak English, Speak Spanish, Read/Write
Undertongue, Spot +6.

Feats: Advanced Firearms, Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Creative, Deceptive,
Defensive Martial Arts, Educated (Knowledge [popular culture] and Knowledge
[business]), Dodge, Elusive Target, Heroic Surge, Improved Initiative, Iron
Will, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Renown,
Simple Weapon Proficiency, Trustworthy, Unbalance Opponent.

Talents (Fast Hero): Evasion, opportunist.

Talents (Dedicated Hero): Skill emphasis (Bluff), Aware, Faith.

Talents (Charismatic Hero): Charm, favor, captivate, fast talk, taunt.

Possessions: +2 SITES M9 (9mm autoloader), 100 rounds of frangible 9mm
ammunition, +2 HK MP5 (with laser sight), concealed carry holster, fabric of
style, 3 potions of charisma, cell phone, business outfit, briefcase.

