---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Vehiclular Magic Items 
excerpt: Vehicular Magic Items Descriptions
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ FX Items](arcana-d20-srd-fx-items-index) > [ Vehiclular Magic Items ](arcana-d20-srd-fx-items-vehicular-magic-items-index) > Vehicular Magic Items Descriptions

##  Vehicular Magic Items Descriptions

The following section described several new vehicular magic items.

**Ablative Paint Job**

A vehicle coated in this nigh unscratchable silvery-gray paint gains 5 points
of hardness. It has no effect on any vehicle with a hardness of 10 or higher.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 28; Weight:
—.

**Bumpers of Blasting**

If a vehicle equipped with bumpers of blasting strikes an object or creature
while moving at least street speed the driver of the vehicle can choose to
have the bumper emit an explosive blast. The explosion causes 5d6 points of
fire damage (in addition to any collision damage) to the object or creature
struck. The vehicle with the bumper of blasting does not take any damage from
the explosion, but does take collision damage as normal.

The explosive blast can be triggered three times per day, regardless of
whether the attack is made with a front or rear bumper. The driver cannot
trigger an explosive blast out of turn, such as when struck by another
vehicle, although the driver could ready an action to trigger the explosive
blast when such a condition arises.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 27; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Bumper of the Ram**

This vicious looking spiked bumper must be bolted to the front or back of the
vehicle. Any time the driver of the vehicle uses the bumper to ram another
vehicle or object, damage to the opposed vehicle is increased by one speed and
size increment, while damage to the vehicle with the bumper of the ram is
reduced by one speed and one size increment. The bumper of the ram’s effects
do not apply to sideswipes.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: 32; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Dashboard Figurine**

A dashboard figurine appears to be a statue of an animal or person 4 to 6
inches tall. When placed upon the dashboard of a vehicle, it sticks in place
and can only be removed by the owner with a command word. Once in place, the
figurine grants a special ability to the vehicle and the driver.

Three different types of dashboard figurines are available:

humorous, monstrous, and religious.

Humorous: This figurine depicts some amusing-looking figure, such as a hula
dancer or a cartoon character. The driver of the vehicle gains a +1 morale
bonus on all saves while operating the vehicle.

Monstrous: This figurine depicts some sort of fierce-looking toy monster.
Attacks made by the driver and passengers of the vehicle gain a +1 morale
bonus.

Religious: This is an icon of a saint, the Virgin Mary, or some other being of
religious or spiritual significance. This type of dashboard figurine provides
a +2 deflection bonus to the vehicle’s Defense.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 26; Weight:
0.5 lb.

**Engine of Infernal Speed**

A vehicle with this engine can accelerate up to two speed categories for the
round, instead of one. However, the vehicle can still only decrease speed by
one speed category for the round, as normal (unless the driver performs a hard
stop). If the vehicle accelerates in this manner, the engine produces jets of
blue flame from the tail pipe that deal 2d6 points of fire damage to anything
within 10 feet of the rear of the vehicle; a successful Reflex save (DC 15)
halves the damage. The flames automatically set fire to combustibles.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Flame Job**

This paint job covers the front of the vehicle in wicked-looking flames. Once
per day, on the owner’s command, the vehicle can burst into flames for 3
rounds, dealing 5d6 points of fire damage to any creature or object touched or
struck by the vehicle. In addition, any creature standing adjacent to the
flaming vehicle takes 2d6 points of fire damage; a successful Reflex save (DC
15) halves the damage. The flames automatically set fire to combustibles.
Neither the vehicle nor its occupants suffer any ill effects from the fire so
long as they remain completely inside the vehicle.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 27; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Fuzzy Dice of Luck**

These gaudy, hot-pink fuzzy dice must be hung from the rearview mirror of the
vehicle to be activated. Once per day, the driver of the vehicle can reroll
any Drive check, but must take the new result regardless of the outcome.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 25; Weight:
—.

**Headlights of Blinding**

Three times per day, these headlights can emit a blinding 50- foot cone of
light projecting from the front of the vehicle. Any creatures caught in the
area must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or be blinded for 2d6 rounds.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 27; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Horn of Blasting**

Up to three times per day, this horn can emit a shrieking sound that deafens
and damages creatures caught in its path. Any creature within a 30-foot cone
directly in front of the vehicle takes 2d6 points of sonic/concussion damage
and is deafened for 2d6 rounds. A successful Fortitude save (DC 16) halves the
damage and negates the deafening effect. Crystalline creatures in the cone
take quadruple damage (8d6 points) from the sonic blast.

Vehicle windows and windshields may shatter if they take sufficient damage
from the blast. Headlights are also susceptible to the horn of blasting and
should be treated as windows for this purpose.

Type:Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 29; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Horn of Dread**

Up to three times per day, this horn can emit a terrifying noise. Anyone
within 50 feet of the horn’s sound must succeed a Will save (DC 15) or be
affected by a cause fear spell (as if cast by a 5th-level Acolyte).

Type:Wondrous Item (vehicular);

Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 27; Weight: — (factored into the vehicle’s
weight).

**Impervious Tires**

These tires are usually sold in sets of two or four, and each tire in the set
has a hardness of 20.

If one of the tires is punctured and ruined, the remaining impervious tires
continue to function.

Type:Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 28 (per set);
Weight: — (factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Nondescript Paint Job**

This paint job makes the vehicle less noticeable. It grants a +5 circumstance
bonus on Bluff and Hide checks when tailing another vehicle or losing a tail.
In addition, anyone wishing to break into the vehicle (other than the owner)
must succeed at a Will save (DC 15) or be unable to do so. This is a mind-
affecting spell-like effect; a new save may be attempted after 24 hours have
passed.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 28; Weight:
—.

**Paint Job of Blurring**

Once per day, this paint job makes the vehicle’s outline to appear blurry.
This is as the blur spell as if cast by a 5th-level Mage. Occupants of the
vehicle are also blurred.

ype: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 27; Weight: —.

**Paralytic Alarm**

This vehicle alarm triggers whenever an attempt is made to break into the
vehicle (for example, by smashing a window or bypassing a door lock), unless
the intruder succeeds at a Disable Device check (DC 30).

When activated, the paralytic alarm emits a hypnotic pulse that paralyzes any
creature within 30 feet for 2d6 rounds. A successful Will save (DC 15) negates
this mind-affecting enchantment.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 28; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Reinflating Tires**

These tires (usually sold in sets of two or four) are slightly spongy to the
touch. If a tire is punctured, it instantly reinflates and is restored to full
hit points. Once a tire magically reinflates, it becomes a nonmagical tire and
cannot reinflate again.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 23 (per tire)
or 26 (per set); Weight: —.

**Seats of Safety**

The occupants of a vehicle equipped with these seats gain the benefits of
three-quarters cover while inside the vehicle. They take no damage from
vehicle collisions, they gain a +7 cover bonus to Defense, and they gain a +3
cover bonus on Reflex saves. The seats of safety do not function if any of the
vehicle’s doors are open.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 28 (per
vehicle); Weight: — (factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Seat of Hold Monster**

Once per day, when the driver utters the proper command word, this seat
(usually a passenger seat in the front or back of the vehicle) holds the
creature seated in it, as the hold monster spell cast by a 10th-level Acolyte.
The target creature gets a Will save (DC 17) to negate the effect, which lasts
for 10 rounds.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 10th; Purchase DC: 32 (per
seat); Weight: — (factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Shrinking Paint Job**

This paint job allows the vehicle to “shrink” to a matchboxsized version small
enough to fit in the palm of one’s hand. Shrinking or enlarging the vehicle
requires a command word, and the vehicle takes a full-round action to shrink
or return to full size. The vehicle will not shrink if it contains any living
beings, but can be shrunk with up to 50 pounds of cargo stored in its trunk.
The vehicle will not unfold if it is in an area that will not allow it to
expand to its full size. A vehicle in its toy size has a hardness of 5 and 5
hit points. The vehicle is destroyed and cannot be repaired if reduced to 0
hit points in its toy form.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Silent Warning Alarm**

This vehicle alarm triggers whenever an attempt is made to break into the
vehicle (for example, by smashing the window or bypassing a door lock), unless
the intruder succeeds at a Disable Device check (DC 30).

When activated, the alarm sends a mental warning to the owner of the vehicle,
although the owner must be within 1 mile of the vehicle to receive it. If the
owner receives the warning and succeeds at a Wisdom check (DC 10), he also
receives a mental picture of the individual or individuals attempting to break
into the vehicle, as if standing next to them (lighting conditions apply).

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 26; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Trunk of Masking**

Whenever this trunk is opened, it creates a powerful illusion to conceal its
true contents. The owner decides what the trunk appears to contain, and its
contents seem real in every respect. Illusory items can be removed, handled,
and manipulated. However, illusory tools provide no benefits to their users,
and illusory items disappear if taken more than 30 feet from the vehicle.

Gleaning the true contents of the trunk requires a true seeing spell or
similar magic. Creatures that suspect the presence of an illusion are entitled
to a Will save (DC 16) to disbelieve it; if the save succeeds, they can
perceive the true contents of the trunk of masking.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: —
(factored into the vehicle’s weight).

**Windows of Deception**

The driver of this vehicle can alter his or her appearance to viewers on the
outside of the vehicle, as if by change self cast by a 3rd-level Mage. If the
one or more of the vehicle’s windows are destroyed, the effect ends and the
windows of deception cease to function.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 26; Weight:
—.

**Zephyr Tires**

Zephyr tires (sold in sets of two or four) are emblazoned with large white
wings on the side. When placed on any car, van, or motorcycle (they resize to
fit any of these vehicles), they allow the vehicle to fly.

Once per day, the vehicle’s driver can command the vehicle to fly. While
flying, the vehicle follows all the normal rules for piloting a flying
vehicle, but otherwise retains the same speed, initiative, and other
statistics. The vehicle can maintain flight for 10 rounds. When performing
aerial stunts, the driver makes Pilot checks instead of Drive checks. Should
the effect’s duration expire while the vehicle is still aloft, the magic fails
slowly. The vehicle drops 60 feet per round for 1d6 rounds. If it reaches the
ground in that amount of time, it lands safely. If not, it falls the remaining
distance.

Zephyr tires have a hardness of 5 and 2 hit points (which also count toward
the hit points of the vehicle). If one or more of the tires are destroyed, the
zephyr tires lose their magic and cease to function, and the vehicle (if
airborne) plunges from the sky.

Type: Wondrous Item (vehicular); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: 32 (per set);
Weight: —.

