---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Gear Golem
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Gear Golem

##  Gear Golem

Gear golems cannot speak. They typically stand 10 feet tall and weigh 4,000
pounds. A gear golem may be created using the create golem incantation.

###  Species Traits

Gear golems have the following traits:

Construct: Gear golems are immune to mind-influencing effects as well as
poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any
effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on objects
or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage,
ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.

Speed: Gear golems are lumbering constructs that can’t take run actions.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the gear golem must hit an opponent
smaller than itself with its slam attack. If it gets a hold, it attempts to
grind its foe against its spinning gears as a free action (see below).

Gear Grind (Ex): If the gear golem successfully grapples a creature smaller
than itself, it grinds the creature with its spinning gears for 4d8 points of
slashing damage each round the grapple is maintained (including the round in
which the grapple is first achieved).

Detonate (Ex): When a gear golem is reduced to 0 or fewer hit points, it
explodes in a 20-foot-radius burst of serrated gears and shrapnel. The
explosion deals 12d8 points of slashing damage to creatures caught in the
radius; a successful Reflex save (DC 19) halves the damage.

Magic Immunity (Ex): A gear golem is immune to all spells, spell-like
abilities, and supernatural effects, except as follows. An electricity effect
slows it (as the slow spell) for 3 rounds, with no saving throw. A fire effect
breaks any slow effect on the golem and cures 1 point of damage for each 3
points of damage it would otherwise deal. The golem rolls no saving throw
against fire effects.

Repairable: Gear golems cannot heal damage on their own but can be repaired
using the Repair skill. A successful Repair check (DC 30) heals 1d10 points of
damage, and each check represents 1 hour of work. A gear golem cannot repair
itself.

Darkvision (Ex): Gear golems can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and gear golems
can function with no light at all.

Gear Golem: CR 11; Large construct; HD18d10+20; hp 119; Mas —; Init –1; Spd 20
ft. (can’t run); Defense 30, touch 8, flat-footed 30 (–1 Dex, –1 size, +22
natural); BAB +13; Grap +23; Atk +18 melee (1d8+9, slam); Full Atk +18 melee
(1d8+6, 2 slams); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct, improved
grab, gear grind, detonate, magic immunity, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or
master; SV Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 9, Con —, Int
—, Wis 11, Cha 1.

Skills: Hide –5.

Feats: None.

Advancement: 19–24 HD (Large); 25–54 HD (Huge).

Advanced Gear Golem: CR 13; Huge construct; HD 25d10+40; hp 177; Mas —; Init
–2; Spd 30 ft. (can’t run); Defense 31, touch 6, flat-footed 31 (–2 Dex, –2
size, +25 natural); BAB +17; Grap +35; Atk +25 melee (2d6+15, slam); Full Atk
+25 melee (2d6+10, 2 slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct,
improved grab, gear grind, detonate (30- foot-radius burst; DC 22), magic
immunity, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or master; SV Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +8;
AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 7, Con —, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 1.

Skills: Hide –10.

Feats: None.

