---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Creatures
excerpt: Sidhe
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Sidhe

##  Sidhe

Use the information on Fey to create new sidhe.

###  Species Traits

Sidhe have the following traits.

Change Self (Sp): A sidhe can change its appearance at will, as per the change
self spell cast by a 10th-level Mage.

Immunities (Ex): A sidhe is immune to one or more specific types of energy or
weapon damage. Sidhe roll on the immunity column of Table: Sidhe Immunities
and Resistances.

Energy Resistance (Ex): A sidhe is resistant to one or more specific types of
energy damage. Sidhe roll on the immunity column of Table: Sidhe Immunities
and Resistances.

Damage Reduction (Su): Sidhe have damage reduction, as noted in the chart
below. One-of-a-kind sidhe lords may have even higher damage reduction
(usually 15/+2).


<table> <tr> <th> Sidhe Hit Dice </th> <th> Damage Reduction </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 8 or fewer </td> <td> 5/+1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 9–16 </td> <td> 10/+1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 17 or more </td> <td> 15/+2 </td> </tr> </table>


Low-Light Vision (Ex): Sidhe can see twice as far as a human in starlight,
moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They
retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

Allegiances: All sidhe have a primary allegiance to chaos.

Bonus Feat: Sidhe gain either Archaic Weapons Proficiency or Simple Weapons
Proficiency as a bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Sidhe can speak Sylvan (the language of fey) and a number
of additional languages equal to their Intelligence bonus. Sidhe with an
Intelligence of 8 or higher can also read and write these languages.

Advancement: By character class.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="4"> Table: Sidhe Immunities and Resistances </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Roll d% </th> <th> Immunity </th> <th> Roll d% </th> <th> Resistance </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 01–06 </td> <td> Acid damage </td> <td> 01–21 </td> <td> None (do not roll again) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 07–12 </td> <td> Cold damage </td> <td> 22–27 </td> <td> Acid resistance 10 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 13–18 </td> <td> Sonic/concussion damage </td> <td> 28–30 </td> <td> Acid resistance 20 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 19–24 </td> <td> Electricity damage </td> <td> 31–36 </td> <td> Cold resistance 10 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 25–30 </td> <td> Fire damage </td> <td> 37–39 </td> <td> Cold resistance 20 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 31–36 </td> <td> Ballistic damage </td> <td> 40–45 </td> <td> Sonic/concussion resistance 10 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 37–42 </td> <td> Bludgeoning damage </td> <td> 46–48 </td> <td> Sonic/concussion resistance 20 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 43–48 </td> <td> Piercing damage </td> <td> 49–54 </td> <td> Electricity resistance 10 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 49–54 </td> <td> Slashing damage </td> <td> 55–57 </td> <td> Electricity resistance 20 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 55–60 </td> <td> Poison damage </td> <td> 58–63 </td> <td> Fire resistance 10 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 61–66 </td> <td> Radiation damage </td> <td> 64–66 </td> <td> Fire resistance 20 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 67–100 </td> <td> Choose one, and roll again </td> <td> 67–100 </td> <td> Choose one, and roll again </td> </tr> </table>


Dreamghast

Fascinate (Sp): A dreamghast can fascinate onlookers by staring at the targets
and speaking softly. The targets must be within 60 feet of the dreamghast and
must be able to see and hear the dreamghast. The dreamghast must also see the
creatures it intends to fascinate. The distraction of a nearby combat or other
dangers prevents the ability from working. Otherwise, creatures that fail a
Will save (DC 21) remain stationary and quiet, staring at and listening to the
dreamghast as long as the dreamghast maintains the fascinate effect for up to
1 minute.

Any potential threat (such as a thrall of the dreamghast moving behind the
fascinated creature) allows an affected target a new save against the
fascinate effect. Any obvious threat, such as drawing a weapon, automatically
breaks the effect. While using the fascinate ability, a dreamghast must spend
an attack action each round concentrating. The fascinate ability is a spell-
like, mind-affecting charm ability.

Despair (Su): The mere sight of a dreamghast in its true form forces the
viewer to succeed at a Will save (DC 21) or be paralyzed with fear for 1d4
rounds. Whether or not the save is successful, that creature cannot be
affected again by that dreamghast’s despair ability for one day.

Detect Dreams (Sp): A dreamghast can observe the dreams of a sleeping creature
within 60 feet. This functions like the detect thoughts power manifested by a
10th-level Telepath, except that it only functions on sleeping creatures.

Devour Dreams (Su): A dreamghast can caress the forehead of a sleeping victim
and consume its dreams for itself. The process requires 10 minutes of
uninterrupted feeding, during which time a cloud or roiling vapor emerges from
the victim’s head and is sucked into the dreamghast’s gaping maw. Once the
dream is devoured, the dreamghast gains a +1 luck bonus on attacks, ability
checks, skill checks, and saves and 4 temporary hit points per Hit Die of the
victim. The luck bonus and temporary hit points last for 24 hours. At the end
of the dream-eating process, the dreamghast chooses whether it wants to
enslave the victim or cause memory loss (see below); either is a free action.
A sleeping victim has no chance of waking during the dream-devouring process.

Enslave (Su): If the dreamghast considers a dream-eating victim particularly
interesting or useful, he may implant a series of enslavement commands in the
victim’s mind. The target must succeed at a Will save (DC 21) or be affected
as though by a domination power manifested by a 10th-level Telepath. The
dreamghast commands the enslaved victim telepathically when the victim sleeps;
when the victim is awake, it acts on previous orders but can’t be given new
ones. An enslaved creature obeys the dreamghast’s commands until freed by a
dispel magic or remove curse spell or a negate psionics power. The enslaved
creature can also attempt a new Will save every 24 hours to break free. The
control is also broken if the dreamghast dies or travels more than 1 mile from
its slave.

Memory Loss (Su): Once the dreamghast eats someone’s dreams, it may consume
the subject’s memories as well. The victim must succeed at a Will save (DC 21)
or suffer complete memory loss. The victim has no memory of his identity,
background, family, friends, and so forth. The memory loss has no effect on
languages known, class-related talents, or other class features. The subject
temporarily loses all Knowledge skills but retains all other skills. The
memory loss persists until the victim receives a break enchantment spell or
undergoes 1d6 months of therapy.

Immunities (Ex): A dreamghast is immune to ballistic damage.

Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): Dreamghasts ignore the first 10 points of fire damage
dealt by any single attack.

Dreamghast (Sidhe): CR 7; Medium fey; HD 10d6+10; hp 45; Mas 16; Init +2; Spd
30 ft.; Defense 17, touch 12, flat-footed 15 (+2 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +5;
Grap +6; Atk +6 melee (1d6+1/19–20, machete) or +6 ranged; Full Atk +4 melee
(1d6+1/19–20, machete), +0 melee (1d6/19–20, 3 machetes) or +6 ranged; FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ fascinate, change self, despair, detect dreams,
dream eating, enslave, memory loss, damage reduction 10/+1, fire resistance
10, immunities, low-light vision; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +5, Will +8;
AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 20.

Skills: Concentration +14, Intimidate +18, Listen +13, Spot +14.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Combat Reflexes, Improved Damage
Threshold, Multiweapon Fighting*, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

*The Multiweapon Fighting feat functions just like the Two-Weapon Fighting feat, except you need more than two arms to use it. The primary attack takes a –2 penalty, and all the secondary attacks take a –6 penalty. 

Possessions: Four machetes.

Advancement: By character class.

Faun

Enchanting Music (Su): Music is magical to fauns, and they can create a
variety of enchanting effects on listeners with a carefully crafted song. When
a faun infuses its song with its fey power, all creatures within a 60-foot
spread of the satyr (except other sidhe) must succeed at a Will save (DC 13)
or be affected by attraction, as the power manifest by a 10thlevel Telepath.
Once per day, the faun can use his music to instead create a lesser domination
effect (Will save, DC 15, negates) or mental blast effect (Will save, DC 15,
negates) targeted at one specific listener.

It takes the faun a full-round action to use enchanting music. Anyone who
successfully saves against the faun’s enchanting music cannot be affected by
music from that faun for one day.

Immunities (Ex): A faun is immune to bludgeoning damage, enabling it to
survive a barfight unscathed.

Cold Resistance 10 (Ex): Fauns ignore the first 10 points of cold damage dealt
by any single attack.

Skill Bonuses: Fauns gain a +4 species bonus on Hide, Listen, Move Silently,
Perform, and Spot checks.

Faun (Sidhe): CR 4; Medium fey; HD 5d6; hp 17; Mas 11; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.;
Defense 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2;
Atk +2 melee (1d6, gore) or +2 melee (1d6/18–20, sword cane) or +5 ranged
(2d6, Colt Python); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6, gore) or +2 melee (1d6/18–20,
sword cane) or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.;
SA enchanting music, change self, cold resistance 10, damage reduction 5/+1,
immunities, lowlight vision; AL chaos; SV Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +3; AP 0; Rep
+0; Str 10, Dex 15, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 14.

Skills: Bluff +10, Disguise +12, Hide +14, Listen +3, Move Silently +12,
Perform (sing) +14, Perform (any one) +14, Spot +3.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Great Fortitude, Personal Weapons
Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Possessions: Musical instrument, loaded Colt Python (.357 revolver), sword
cane (usually disguised as an umbrella or within the musical instrument’s
case).

Advancement: By character class.

