---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title: Creatures
excerpt: Changeling (Template)
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[Creatures](arcana-d20-srd-creatures-index) > Changeling (Template)

## Changeling (Template)

Template Traits

“Changeling” is an inherited template that can be added to any Small or Medium
humanoid, monstrous humanoid, or outsider (referred to hereafter as the base
creature). The changeling uses all all the base creature’s statistics and
special abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: Same as the base creature +2.

Type: The creature’s type changes to fey.

Hit Dice: Change to d6.

Special Qualities: A changeling retains all of the base creature’s
extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-like qualities except for qualities
tied to its type. In addition to gaining the fey type, a changeling has the
following special qualities.

Spell-like Abilities: 1/day—charm person, object reading; 3/day—detect magical
aura. The changeling’s manifester level is equal to his or her character
level.

Immunities (Ex): A changeling picks one energy type (acid, cold, electricity,
fire, or sonic/concussion) to which it is immune.

Resistance to Energy (Ex): A changeling gains energy resistance 10 to one
energy type (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion). A changeling
cannot be resistant to an energy type to which it is immune (see above).

Damage Reduction 5/+1 (Su): A changeling ignores the first 5 points of damage
dealt by a nonmagical weapon. Unlike sidhe, this damage reduction doesn’t
increase as the changeling gains Hit Dice or levels.

Allegiances: A changeling has an allegiance to chaos, but unlike other sidhe,
chaos need not be the primary allegiance. This allegiance cannot be broken.

Ability Scores: A changeling’s ability scores change as follows: Dex +4, Con
–2, Cha +4.

Skill Bonuses: Changelings gain a +2 species bonus on Bluff and Sleight of
Hand checks.

Feats: As the base creature. Unlike sidhe, changelings do not gain Archaic
Weapons Proficiency or Simple Weapons Proficiency as bonus feats.

Changeling (Half-Human) Charismatic Hero 1: CR 3; Medium fey; HD 1d6+2
(includes Toughness feat); hp 8; Mas 8; Init +4; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch
14, flat-footed 11 (+4 Dex, +1 leather jacket); BAB +0; Grap –1; Atk –1 melee
(1d3–1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +4 ranged (2d6, Ruger Service-Six); Full
Atk –1 melee (1d3–1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +4 ranged (2d6, Ruger
Service-Six); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SA spell-like abilities, immune
to electricity, fire resistance 10, damage reduction 5/+1; AL chaos; SV Fort
+0, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +2; Str 8, Dex 18, Con 8, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha
19.

Skills: Bluff +10, Diplomacy +8, Disguise +8, Drive +6, Gamble +3, Gather
Information +8, Knowledge (streetwise) +5, Sleight of Hand +8.

Feats: Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Toughness.

Talent (Charismatic Hero): Fast-talk.

Possessions: Leather jacket, loaded Ruger Service-Six (.385 revolver), stolen
BMW M3 sports coupe, coat, casual clothes, sunglasses, first aid kit (in car’s
trunk).

