---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Shadowkind
excerpt: Gnome
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Shadowkind](arcana-d20-srd-shadowkind-index) > Gnome

##  Gnome

Size: Small. Gnomes gain a +1 size bonus to Defense, a +1 size bonus on attack
rolls, and a +4 size bonus on Hide checks. They suffer a –4 size penalty on
grapple checks. Gnomes must use smaller weapons than humans use, and their
lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of a Medium character.

Ability Modifiers: –2 Strength, +2 Constitution.

Base Speed: 20 feet.

Special Combat Bonuses: Gnomes gain a +1 species bonus on attack rolls against
bugbears, goblins (and other goblinoids), and kobolds. Gnomes also gain a +4
dodge bonus to their Defense against giant creatures (such as ogres and
trolls); this bonus represents special training that gnomes undergo, during
which they learn tricks that previous generations developed in their battles
with giants. Note that any time a gnome loses his positive Dexterity bonus to
Defense, such as when he’s caught flat-footed, he loses this dodge bonus, too.

Illusion Mastery: Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against
Illusion spells cast by gnomes.

Speak with Animals: Once per day, a gnome can use speak with animals to speak
with a burrowing mammal (a mole, gopher, ground hog, and so forth). It has a
duration of 1 minute, and the gnome is considered a 1st-level caster when he
uses this spell-like ability, regardless of his actual level.

Low-Light Vision: Gnomes can see twice as far as a human in starlight,
moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They
retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

Saving Throw Bonus: Gnomes gain a +2 species bonus on saving throws against
illusions.

Skill Bonuses: Gnomes gain a +2 species bonus on Listen checks. Gnomes who
have one or more ranks in the Craft (pharmaceutical) skill also gain a +2
species bonus on Craft (pharmaceutical) checks.

Bonus Feats: Gnomes gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency. They may
treat gnome hooked hammers (see Chapter Two: Equipment) as archaic weapons
instead of exotic weapons.

Gnomes with Charisma scores of 10 or higher gain the bonus feat Magical
Heritage.

Free Language Skills: Read/Write Common (or local language), Read/Write Gnome,
Speak Common (or local language), Speak Gnome.

Other Languages: Draconic, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, Orc.

