---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Incantations
excerpt: Teleport
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Incantations](arcana-d20-srd-incantations-index) > Teleport

##  Teleport

Conjuration (Teleporting)

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 31, 5 successes, and Navigate DC 31, 1
success; Failure: Two consecutive failed skill checks; Components: V, S, SC,
B; Casting Time: 60 minutes (minimum); Range: Personal and Touch; Target: You,
up to six touched willing creatures, and touched objects weighing up to 500
lb./level; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No

This incantation instantly transports you to a designated destination up to
1,000 miles away. You can bring along up to 500 pounds of touched objects and
up to six additional willing creatures (and their gear or objects up to their
maximum load). All creatures to be transported must be in contact with one
another, and at least one of those creatures must be in contact with you. The
creatures may be the secondary casters of the incantation, but they don’t need
to be.

You must have some clear idea of the location and layout of the destination.
The clearer your mental image, the more likely the teleportation works. Areas
of strong physical or magical energies may make teleportation more hazardous
or even impossible.

Options: If you have global positioning system coordinates for your
destination, decrease the Knowledge (arcane lore) and Navigate check DCs by
–2.

Secondary Casters: Three required (not including primary caster).

Backlash: All casters take 2d6 points of damage.

Failure: Mirrorcast. If the second consecutive Knowledge (arcane lore) check
fails by 5 or less, you arrive off target, appearing safely a random distance
away from the destination in a random direction. Distance off target is 1d10 x
1d10% of the distance that was to be traveled. The GM determines the direction
off target randomly, such as by rolling 1d8 and designating 1 as north, 2 as
northeast, and so forth.

If the second Knowledge (arcane lore) check fails by 6 or more, you wind up in
an area that’s visually or thematically opposite to the destination. The GM
determines the point of arrival.

