---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Incantations
excerpt: Polymorph
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Incantations](arcana-d20-srd-incantations-index) > Polymorph

##  Polymorph

Transmutation

Skill Check: Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 31, 5 successes, and Knowledge (earth
and life sciences) DC 31, 1 success; Failure: Two consecutive failed skill
checks; Components: V, S, M, F; Casting Time: 60 minutes (minimum); Range:
Touch; Target: Willing creature touched; Duration: 12 minutes; Saving Throw:
Fortitude negates; Spell Resistance: Yes

The polymorph incantation gives a creature another form that you designate,
which must be within one size category of the subject’s normal size. The new
form can have no more Hit Dice than you or the subject has (whichever is
greater), and in any case the assumed form cannot have more than 15 Hit Dice.
You can transform the subject into an average member of its own species. The
new form cannot be an elemental, outsider, or undead unless the subject is
that type already. The new form can’t be incorporeal or gaseous.

The subject’s Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores change to the
average scores for the new form.. The subject doesn’t gain or lose any hit
points, regardless of its new Constitution score.

The subject retains its own Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The
subject’s class and level, hit points, alignment, base attack bonus, and base
save bonuses all remain the same. (New Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
scores may affect final attack and save bonuses.) The subject also retains all
extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-like abilities, as well as any
spellcasting ability.

You can freely designate the new form’s minor physical qualities (such as hair
color, hair texture, and skin color) within the normal ranges for a creature
of that type. The new form’s significant physical qualities (such as height,
weight, and gender) are also under your control, but must fall within the
norms for the new form’s species. The subject is effectively disguised as an
average member of the new form’s race. If you use this spell to create a
disguise, you get a +10 bonus on your Disguise check.

The subject acquires the physical qualities of the new form while retaining
its own mind. Physical qualities include natural size, mundane movement
capabilities (such as burrowing, climbing, walking, swimming, and flight with
wings, up to a maximum speed of 120 feet for flying or 60 feet for nonflying),
darkvision and/or low-light vision, natural armor bonus, natural weapons (such
as claws, bite, and so on), species skill bonuses, species bonus feats, and
any gross physical qualities (presence or absence of wings, number of
extremities, and so forth). A body with extra limbs does not allow a character
to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.

The subject also gains any extraordinary special qualities possessed by the
new form. You do not gain any extraordinary special qualities not listed above
under physical qualities, such as blindsight, fast healing, regeneration,
energy resistance, scent, or spell resistance. You do not gain any
supernatural abilities or spell-like abilities of the new form.

If the new form is capable of speech, the subject can communicate normally.
Though the subject retains any spellcasting ability he had in his original
form, the form must be able to speak intelligibly (that is, speak a language)
to use verbal components and must have humanlike hands to use somatic or
material components.

When the polymorph occurs, the subject’s equipment, if any, either remains
worn or held by the new form (if the new form is capable of wearing or holding
the item), or melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. When the
subject reverts to his true form, any objects previously melded into the new
form reappear in the same locations they previously were and are once again
functional. Any new items he wore in polymorphed form and can’t wear in his
normal form fall off and land at his feet; any that he could wear in either
form or carried in a body part common to both forms (mouth, hands, or the
like) at the time of reversion are still held in the same way. Any part of the
body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its
original form.

Options: If you have a living, helpless creature that can serve as a model for
the target creature, the DC on the Knowledge (arcane lore) checks for this
incantation is reduced by –2.

Material Component: Part of the kind of creature that the target will turn
into, such as a hair, scale, or feather.

Focus: Laboratory equipment (purchase DC 25).

Failure: Damage. The target takes 12d6 points of damage.

