---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Advanced Classes 
excerpt: Swashbuckler
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ Arcana d20 SRD ](/#arcanaD20) > [ Advanced Classes ](arcana-d20-srd-advanced-classes-index) > Swashbuckler

##  Swashbuckler

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Fast hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become a Swashbuckler, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +2.

Skills: Balance 6 ranks, Tumble 6 ranks.

Feats: Weapon Finesse with any light melee weapon.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Swashbuckler advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Swashbucklers gain 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Swashbucklers gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Swashbuckler’s class skills are as follows: Balance (Dex), Climb (Str),
Escape Artist (Dex), Hide (Dex), Jump (Str), Knowledge (current events,
history, popular culture), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Navigate (Int),
Pilot (Dex), Profession (Wis), Sleight of Hand (Dex), Swim (Str), Tumble
(Dex). Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Swashbuckler </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Weapon focus </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Quick weapon draw </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Weapon specialization </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Find the mark </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Greater weapon specialization </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Deflect missiles </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Touché </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> </table>



###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Swashbuckler advanced class.

**Weapon Focus**

At 1st level, the Swashbuckler gets the Weapon Focus feat for a weapon which
he has Weapon Finesse. If he already has Weapon Focus for this weapon, then he
gains Weapon Focus in another light melee weapon or smaller of his choice.

**Quick Weapon Draw**

At 2nd level, the Swashbuckler gains the ability to draw his weapon as a free
action. This applies only to the weapons for which the Swashbuckler has Weapon
Focus.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th levels, the Swashbuckler gets a bonus feat. The bonus
feat must be selected from the following list, and the Swashbuckler must meet
all of the prerequisites for the feat to select it. Blind-Fight, Combat
Expertise, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Exotic Melee Weapon Proficiency, Improved
Damage Threshold, Improved Disarm, Improved Trip, Mobility, Spring Attack,
Whirlwind Attack.

**Weapon Specialization**

At 4th level, the Swashbuckler gains the Weapon Specialization feat. He gains
a +2 bonus on damage rolls with a chosen light slashing or piercing melee
weapon.

The Swashbuckler must have Weapon Focus in that weapon in order to gain Weapon
Specialization.

**Find the Mark**

The Swashbuckler increases his threat range by one when using any melee weapon
with which he has Weapon Finesse. A weapon that would threaten a critical on
20 would now do so on a 19 or 20, and one which threatens on a 19 or 20 would
now do so on an 18 to 20. This ability works with other abilities which
increase threat ranges.

**Greater Weapon Specialization**

At 7th level, the Swashbuckler gains Greater Weapon Specialization with a
light or smaller melee weapon with which he has Weapon Specialization. This
ability increases the bonus on damage rolls to +4 when using the selected
weapon.

**Deflect Missiles**

At 8th level, the Swashbuckler can use his weapon to deflect missiles in the
air, including arrows, spears, bolts, and bullets. This is a supernatural
ability and costs an action point to activate.

If armed with a melee weapon with which he has Greater Weapon Specialization,
the Swashbuckler may spend an action point to allow a Reflex save (DC 20 +1
per enhancement bonus of the attacking weapon). If he succeeds, he deflects
the missile harmlessly away. The Deflect Missiles ability applies to bullets
from handguns and longarms, but not exceptional missiles (such as magic
missiles or particularly large items). If used successfully against a grenade
attack the grenade automatically scatters (as normal rules) and then explodes.

**Touché**

At 10th level, the Swashbuckler is so adept are using his chosen weapon (with
which he has Greater Weapon Focus) that attacks with that weapon can deal
additional damage. With a successful attack with this weapon, before damage is
rolled, he can spend 1 action point to deal +3d6 points of damage. This damage
is not doubled by the effects of critical hits.

