---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Fire Wisp
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Fire Wisp

##  Fire Wisp

A fire wisp resembles a jet of fire between 6 inches and 1 foot high. Green or
blue in color, it flickers a like living flame.

###  Species Traits

Ability Scores: A fire wisp has no Strength score. It cannot grapple other
creatures or be grappled, and it applies its Dexterity modifier instead of its
Strength modifier to melee attack rolls.

Blindsight (Ex): A fire wisp can detect the electrical currents in and around
creatures and objects within 60 feet. This perception reveals their locations
as accurately as normal vision would. Beyond that range, all targets have
total concealment with respect to the fire wisp.

Elemental: A fire wisp has the traits and immunities common to elementals.

Fire Subtype: A fire wisp is immune to fire damage and takes 50% more damage
from cold attacks.

Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Su): A fire wisp ignores the first 10 points of damage
dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can
either disregard the fire wisp’s damage reduction or apply it only to certain
types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/
concussion).

Fiery Leap (Ex): A fire wisp can attack multiple creatures in the same round
by leaping from one to the next. A fire wisp can attack as many creatures in a
single round as it can reach with a full round of movement (40 feet), leaving
behind visible arcs of green fire between the targets. It makes a separate
attack roll for each target, and all attacks are made at the fire wisp’s full
attack bonus. A leaping fire wisp does not provoke attacks of opportunity as
it enters a target’s square.

Gaseous (Ex): The gaseous body of a fire wisp can travel through openings as
small as pinholes. A fire wisp cannot enter water or other liquids, but unlike
other gaseous creatures, it is affected by wind only if it wishes to be. Even
tornado-strength winds pass through a fire wisp with no effect if it wants to
fly in a different direction.

Ignite (Ex): Any creature that takes damage from a fire wisp catches on fire.

Immunities (Ex): Fire wisps are immune to electricity and fire damage.

Fire Wisp: CR 3; Diminutive elemental (fire); HD 2d8; hp 9; Mas —; Init +4;
Spd fly 20 ft. (perfect; can’t run); Defense 18, touch 18, flat-footed 14 (+4
size, +4 Dex); BAB +1; Grap —; Atk +9 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); Full Atk
+9 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ
blindsight 60 ft., damage reduction 10/+1, elemental, fiery leap, fire
subtype, gaseous, ignite, immunities; AL evil or none; SV Fort +0, Ref +7,
Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str —, Dex 18, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 6.

**Skills:** Listen +3, Spot +3.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 3–4 HD (Diminutive); 5–6 HD (Tiny).

Advanced Fire Wisp: CR 5; Tiny elemental (fire); HD 5d8; hp 22; Mas —; Init
+3; Spd fly 20 ft. (perfect; can’t run); Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 12
(+2 size, +3 Dex); BAB +3; Grap —; Atk +8 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); Full
Atk +8 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ
blindsight 60 ft., damage reduction 10/+1, elemental, fiery leap, fire
subtype, gaseous, ignite, immunities; AL evil or none; SV Fort +1, Ref +7,
Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str —, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 6.

**Skills:** Listen +6, Spot +6.

**Feats:** Heroic Surge (2/day).

