---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Robot
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Robot

##  Robot

Robots are manufactured, remote-controlled constructs powered by batteries.
These highly useful machines come in a variety of sizes and shapes and can be
fitted with tools or weapons. Techies create robots—for rules on this process,
refer to the Techie advanced class.

###  Species Traits

Construct: Robots have the traits and immunities common to constructs.

Speed: A robot’s speed depends on its size and method of locomotion (bipedal,
quadrupedal, tracked, or wheeled). The different speeds are given with each
robot’s statistics (below).

Attacks: A robot is not normally equipped with weapons. Robots fitted with
arms or similar manipulators can attempt to grapple things, but only robots of
Medium-size or larger can use their manipulators to deal damage.

**Skills:** A character with four or more levels in the Techie advanced class
can program one or more ranks of a single skill into a robot; otherwise, the
robot has no skills.

###  Building a Robot

Follow these two steps to create Small or Medium-size robots.

1\. Wealth Check: The purchase DC for the components needed to construct a
robot is based on its size category.

Make a Wealth check to purchase and gather the necessary components before
starting construction.


<table> <tr> <th> Size </th> <th> Purchase DC </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Small </td> <td> 21 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Medium-size </td> <td> 24 </td> </tr> </table>


2\. Construct Frame: The robot’s body determines its size, shape, locomotion,
and hit points. The DC of the required Craft (mechanical) check is set by the
robot’s size and modified by the mode of locomotion selected (see the Techie
advanced class description).


<table> <tr> <th> Size </th> <th> Craft (mechanical) DC </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Small </td> <td> 18 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Medium-size </td> <td> 21 </td> </tr> </table>


In addition to the external components noted in the Techie advanced class
description, a Techie can add additional components, weapons, and armor
plating to a robot. Refer to the table below to find the DC modifier for
adding new components to a robot.


<table> <tr> <th> Components </th> <th> DC Modifier </th> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="2"> Frame Shape and Locomotion </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Articulated frame </td> <td> +5 </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="2"> External Components </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Accessory mount </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Loading mechanism </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Basic toolkit </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Basic electrical kit </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Searchlight </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="2"> Armor </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Natural armor bonus +2 </td> <td> +2* </td> </tr> </table>


*This component can be purchased a number of times equal to the robot’s size category (counted up from Diminutive). 

Articulated Frame: This robot’s body is articulated so that it can move like a
snake, slithering through narrow openings and navigating stairs with ease. A
robot with this frame moves as fast as a bipedal robot, but it can also move
through difficult terrain and small spaces without slowing.

Accessory Mount: A robot with an accessory mount can be armed with a single
weapon or accessory up to one size category larger than itself. Such a robot
can fire a weapon using its normal attack modifier or via a remote, using the
operator’s attack modifier with a –4 penalty. Alternatively, an accessory
mount can hold a single grenade, or nearly any of the items on Table: General
Equipment.

Loading Mechanism: A robot with a loading mechanism can reload a single weapon
with a full-round action. The mechanism holds enough ammunition to reload the
weapon three times, and it works with weapons that use box ammunition, speed-
loaders (but not loose bullets), a grenade launcher round, or some sort of
fuel tank (such as a flamethrower). A robot can have multiple loading
mechanisms, one for each weapon that it has mounted in its frame.

Toolkits: A robot can use a toolkit if it has the appropriate skill or can use
the operator’s skill at a –2 penalty via remote control.

Searchlight: A searchlight operates in the same manner as a battery flood
spotlight.

Small Robot: CR 1/2; Small construct; HD 1d10+5; hp 10; Mas —; Init +0; Spd 30
ft. (treads), 30 ft. (bipedal), 40 ft. (quadrupedal), or 50 ft. (wheels);
Defense 11, touch 11, flatfooted 11 (+1 size); BAB +0; Grap –4; Atk +1 melee;
Full Atk +1 melee or +1 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct;
AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 10, Con —, Int
—, Wis 10, Cha 10.

**Skills:** None (unless programmed by a Techie).

**Feats:** None.

External Components: Audio/visual sensor, manipulator arms.

**Advancement:** None.

Medium-Size Robot: CR 1; Medium-sized construct; HD 2d10+10; hp 21; Mas —;
Init +0; Spd 30 ft. (treads), 30 ft. (bipedal), 40 ft. (quadrupedal), or 50
ft. (wheels); Defense 9, touch 9, flat-footed 9 (–1 Dex); BAB +1; Grap +3; Atk
+3 melee (1d4+2, claw); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, claw) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft.
by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref –1, Will +0; AP
0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 8, Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 10.

**Skills:** None (unless programmed by a Techie).

**Feats:** None.

External Components: Audio/visual sensor, manipulator arms.

**Advancement:** None.

Police Assault Drone*: CR 1; Medium-sized construct; HD 2d10+10; hp 21; Mas —;
Init –1; Spd 30 ft. (treads); Defense 13, touch 9, flat-footed 13 (–1 Dex, +4
armor); BAB +1; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, claw); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+2,
claw) or +2 ranged (2d8, Mossberg shotgun); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
construct; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref –1, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 8,
Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 10.

**Skills:** Disable Device +4.

**Feats:** None.

External Components: Armor (+4), audio/visual sensor, manipulator arms, 2
accessory mounts, Mossberg shotgun, autoloader, tear gas grenade, searchlight,
remote control link (200 feet).

**Advancement:** None.

*This robot requires a successful Wealth check (DC 21) and a successful Craft (mechanical) check (DC 32) to create. 

