---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title: Menaces
excerpt: Rod
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[d20 Menaces](/#menacesD20) > [Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Rod

## Rod

A rod is an insect with a sticklike body about 1 foot long. Short, undulating
wings run the entire length of its form, allowing it to dart and maneuver
quickly.

### Species Traits

Ballistic Path (Ex): A rod reacts to the presence of a psionic creature by
flying toward it at extremely high speed.

As a full-round action, a rod can move up to 200 feet in a straight line,
attacking with a +2 bonus (for a total melee attack bonus of +6). If it hits,
the rod deals 2d8 points of ballistic damage to the target, but it is
destroyed by the impact. Except as noted here, this attack is treated as a
charge.

Detect Psionics (Sp): A rod is automatically aware of psionic creatures or
powers within 60 feet, as though constantly under the effect of the detect
psionics power.

Invisible to Naked Eye (Ex): A rod moves too fast to be seen by the naked eye,
except as a blur of motion. It can be seen only as a recorded image on high-
speed film or videotape, or via some similar means of recording fast-moving
objects.

Vermin: A rod has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. It is immune to mind-
affecting effects and gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate
the effects of massive damage.

Rod: CR 1/4; Diminutive vermin; HD 1/8 d8; hp 1; Mas 4; Init +4; Spd fly 100
ft. (perfect); Defense 18, touch 18, flat-footed 14 (+4 size, +4 Dex); BAB +0;
Grap –17; Atk –1 melee (1d2–5, bite); Full Atk –1 melee (1d2–5, bite); FS 1
ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ ballistic path, darkvision 60 ft., detect
psionics, invisible to naked eye, vermin; AL none; SV Fort –1, Ref +4, Will
+0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 18, Con 4, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 2.

**Skills:** Listen +4, Move Silently +8, Spot +4.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

