---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Demonic Machine
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Demonic Machine

##  Demonic Machine

A demonic machine has the normal dimensions, weight, and appearance of its
mundane counterpart, and to all outward appearances, it is a perfectly normal
machine. Any sort of device that has sufficiently dangerous moving parts—a
printing press, a farm combine, an industrial shredder, or the like—is an
excellent candidate for fiendish possession.

###  Species Traits

Charm Person (Sp): Once per day, as a full-round action, the demonic machine
can use charm person (manifester level 5th; save DC 8).

Construct: A demonic machine has the traits and immunities common to
constructs. Unlike most constructs, however, it has an Intelligence score
supplied by the demonic force that animates it.

Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Su): A demonic machine ignores the first 10 points of
damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the
GM can either disregard the demonic machine’s damage reduction or apply it
only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing,
or sonic/concussion).

**Feats:** Though technically a construct, a demonic machine is animated by a
fell presence from beyond Shadow. It gains feats as an outsider (1, plus 1
feat per 4 HD beyond 1 HD).

Grind (Ex): A demonic machine may make a grind attack (at its normal attack
bonus) against a grappled creature, dealing double claw damage plus its
Strength modifier.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the demonic machine must hit an
opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its claw attack.
If it gets a hold, it automatically deals claw damage each round that the hold
is maintained, and it can grind in the next round.

Machine Possession: The animating force in a demonic machine is a demon from
beyond Shadow. This creature can, at any time, choose to abandon one machine
as a free action and possess another as an attack action.

**Skills:** A demonic machine gains skills as if it were an outsider (8 + Int
modifier per HD).

Demonic Machine: CR 5; Large construct; HD 5d10+15; hp 42; Mas —; Init +3; Spd
30 ft.; Defense 13, touch 8, flat-footed 13 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +5 natural); BAB
+3; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d6+5, claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+5, 2 claws);
FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, damage reduction 10/+1,
improved grab, grind (2d6+5), machine possession; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +0,
Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20, Dex 8, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 5.

**Skills:** Bluff +5, Listen +10, Sense Motive +8, Spot +10.

**Feats:** Alertness, Improved Initiative.

**Advancement:** 6–7 HD (Large); 8–15 HD (Huge).

Advanced Demonic Machine (industrial shredder): CR 8; Huge construct; HD
8d10+20; hp 64; Mas —; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 6, flat-footed
14 (–2 size, –2 Dex, +8 natural); BAB +6; Grap +23; Atk +13 melee (2d4+9,
claw); Full Atk +13 melee (2d4+9, 2 claws); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.;
SA improved grab, grind (4d4+9); SQ construct, damage reduction 10/+1,
improved grab, grind, possession; AL evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +0, Will +2; AP 0;
Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 6, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 5.

**Skills:** Bluff +11, Listen +16, Sense Motive +14, Spot +16.

**Feats:** Alertness, Improved Initiative.

