---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Crawfordsville Monster
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Crawfordsville Monster

##  Crawfordsville Monster

A Crawfordsville monster appears as a gigantic amoeba floating through the
air. A typical specimen measures 20 feet in diameter but weighs only 500
pounds.

###  Species Traits

Acidic Enzymes (Ex): Any creature that takes damage from a Crawfordsville
monster’s slam attack also takes 1d6 points of acid damage from its digestive
enzymes. These enzymes continue to dissolve the victim even after the attack,
dealing 1d6 points of acid damage each round until the wound is washed with at
least 1 pint of water (or some other appropriate liquid).

Engulf (Ex): A Crawfordsville monster can simply bowl over opponents up to one
size category smaller than itself as a attack action during a move action.
This attack affects as many opponents as the monster’s body can cover. Each
target can make either an attack of opportunity against the Crawfordsville
monster or a Reflex save (DC 13) to avoid being engulfed. A successful saving
throw indicates that the target has been pushed back or aside (target’s
choice) as the monster moves forward. An engulfed creature is considered
grappled and trapped within the monster’s body. A Crawfordsville monster
cannot make a slam attack during a round in which it attempts to engulf, but
each engulfed creature takes 2d6 points of acid damage on that round and every
round thereafter that it remains trapped.

Immunities (Ex): A Crawfordsville monster is immune to damage from piercing
weapons.

Natural Invisibility (Su): A Crawfordsville monster remains invisible even
when attacking. Any creature that correctly discerns its location despite
being unable to see it has a 50% miss chance on melee and ranged attacks. The
miss chance drops to 20% after the Crawfordsville monster has successfully
engulfed at least one Small or larger creature or four or more Tiny creatures,
because of the pink shade its body acquires. This ability is always active.

Ooze: A Crawfordsville monster has the traits and immunities common to oozes.

Sonic/Concussion Vulnerability (Ex): A Crawfordsville monster takes double
damage from attacks that deal sonic or concussion damage.

Crawfordsville Monster: CR 9; Huge ooze; HD 8d10+52; hp 96; Mas —; Init –2;
Spd 5 ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 11, touch 6, flat-footed 11 (–2 size,
–2 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +6; Grap +23; Atk +13 melee (2d6+9 plus 1d6 acid,
slam); Full Atk +13 melee (2d6+9 plus 1d6 acid, 2 slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.;
Reach 10 ft.; SQ acidic enzymes, blindsight 60 ft., engulf, immune to piercing
weapons, natural invisibility, ooze, sonic/concussion vulnerability; AL none;
SV Fort +6, Ref +0, Will –3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 6, Con 18, Int —, Wis
1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 9–18 HD (Huge); 19–27 HD (Gargantuan).

Advanced Crawfordsville Monster: CR 12; Gargantuan ooze; HD 19d10+135; hp 239;
Mas —; Init –2; Spd 5 ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 13, touch 7, flat-
footed 13 (–4 size, –2 Dex, +9 natural); BAB +14; Grap +39; Atk +23 melee
(2d8+13 plus 1d6 acid, slam); Full Atk +23/+18/+13 melee (2d8+13 plus 1d6
acid, slam); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ acidic enzymes, blindsight
60 ft., engulf, natural invisibility, ooze, piercing immunity,
sonic/concussion vulnerability; AL none; SV Fort +12, Ref +4, Will +1; AP 0;
Rep +0; Str 36, Dex 6, Con 22, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

