---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Alien Probe
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Alien Probe

##  Alien Probe

###  Species Traits

Actinic Light (Sp): As an attack action, an alien probe can produce an
extremely bright, blue-white light in a 60-foot cone. This light is not so
much an attack form as a side effect of the means by which the creature
gathers data. Nevertheless, exposure to the effect can cause mild discomfort
or even harm to carbon-based life forms. Each creature within the area of the
light takes 1d4 points of fire damage and is nauseated for 1d4 rounds; a
successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the alien probe’s Hit Dice + its Charisma
modifier) halves the damage and negates the nauseating effect. A creature that
fails the saving throw by 5 or more is also paralyzed until removed from the
area. A creature that fails the save by 10 or more experiences such severe
swelling of the flesh that it is blinded as well as paralyzed. The paralysis
and blindness last for 2d4 days, or until the victim receives medical
attention (Treat Injury DC 15).

Construct: An alien probe has the traits and immunities common to constructs.

Invisibility (Su): As a free action, an alien probe can become invisible by
shifting its light display to a wavelength beyond other creatures’ ability to
perceive. This ability is usable at will, and the effect lasts until dismissed
(also a free action).

Psionics (Sp): At will—brain lock, daze, detect psionics, tailor memory,
telekinesis. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + alien probe’s key ability
modifier + power level.

Dimension Door (Sp): As an attack action, an alien probe can psionically
transfer itself plus up to 300 pounds of additional material and/or creatures
up to 600 feet; creatures can resist with a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2
the alien probe’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). The probe must be in
physical contact with the materials or creatures that it wishes to transfer.
This ability is usable at will.

Shock (Ex): With a successful ranged touch attack, an alien probe can deal 2d6
points of electricity damage.

Supersonic Speed (Ex): At will, an alien probe can shift into an accelerated
mode of travel that exceeds supersonic speed. Its fly speed changes to 4,000
feet (good). It can maintain this increased speed for up to 6 hours per day,
though it need not use the entire duration at once.

Alien Probe: CR 5; Small construct; HD 6d10+5; hp 38; Mas —; Init +9; Spd fly
400 ft. (perfect); Defense 20, touch 20, flat-footed 11 (+1 size, +9 Dex); BAB
+4; Grap +3; Atk +14 ranged touch (2d6 electricity, shock); Full Atk +14
ranged touch (2d6 electricity, shock); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
actinic light (DC 14), construct, darkvision 60 ft., dimension door (DC 14),
invisibility, psionics, shock, supersonic speed; AL creator; SV Fort +2, Ref
+11, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 28, Con —, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 12.

**Skills:** Listen +12, Spot +12.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

