---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Acid Rainer
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Acid Rainer

##  Satanic Ichor

A 13-gallon canister of satanic ichor weighs 250 pounds. A typical canister
has hardness 5, 15 hit points, and a break DC of 18. If the canister sports a
lock, the lock is usually high quality (Open Lock DC 30). Once released from
its canister, satanic ichor can crawl across surfaces or float through the air
with ease.

###  Species Traits

Blindsight (Ex): Satanic ichor is blind but can ascertain all creatures and
objects within 120 feet by nonvisual means. Beyond that range, all targets
have total concealment with respect to the satanic ichor.

Corrupt the Mind (Su): As an attack action, satanic ichor can dominate any
creature it can contact telepathically (as the domination psionic power
manifested by a 10th-level Telepath). A successful Will save (DC 18) negates
the effect and protects the creature against further domination attempts by
the satanic ichor for 24 hours. Satanic ichor trapped within a container will
typically use a dominated creature to break the container that confines it.
Freed satanic ichor will typically use a dominated creature as a vessel (see
below) or thrall to attract other potential thralls.

Immunities: Satanic ichor is immune to all weapons except ones that deal
energy damage.

Ooze: Satanic ichor has the traits and immunities common to all oozes.

Telepathy (Su): Satanic ichor can communicate telepathically with any creature
within 100 feet that has a language.

Vessel of Flesh (Su): If it succeeds at an attack roll against a living
creature, satanic ichor can enter the creature’s body through one or more
orifices (usually the mouth, nostrils, or ears) or an open wound. The target
gets a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the satanic ichor’s Hit Dice + its Charisma
modifier) to keep the satanic ichor from entering and taking control of its
body. If the save fails, the satanic ichor seizes control of the creature’s
body, using it as a vessel to commit murder and other atrocities. A remove
curse spell can expel satanic ichor from a creature’s body, but the caster
must succeed at a level check (1d20 + caster level) or the spell fails (DC 10
+ 1/2 the satanic ichor’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). The creature
possessed by satanic ichor has no memory of the possession once the satanic
ichor is expelled. If the host drops to 0 or fewer hit points, the satanic
ichor inside spills out through the mouth, ears, and nostrils and tries to
commandeer a new “vessel” as quickly as possible. While possessing a creature,
satanic ichor cannot be attacked directly.

A living creature possessed by satanic ichor takes 1d2 points of temporary
Constitution damage per day, or 1d6 points per day if the satanic ichor’s size
category is larger than its host’s. The Constitution damage cannot be healed
until the satanic ichor is expelled.

Satanic Ichor: CR 4; Small ooze; HD 2d10+10; hp 21; Mas —; Init +0; Spd 10
ft., climb 10 ft., fly 20 ft. (average); Defense 11 (+1 size), touch 11, flat-
footed 11; BAB +1; Grap +0; Atk +1 melee touch (1d4–1 plus special, slam);
Full Atk +1 melee touch (1d4–1 plus special, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
ft.; SQ blindsight 120 ft., corrupt the mind, immunities, traits, telepathy,
vessel of flesh; AL evil; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 9,
Dex 11, Con 11, Int 18, Wis 17, Cha 18.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 3–5 HD (Small); 6–9 HD (Medium-size); 10–15 HD (Large).

Advanced Satanic Ichor: CR 10; Medium-size ooze; HD 8d10+36; hp 80; Mas —;
Init +0; Spd 10 ft., climb 10 ft., fly 20 ft. (average); Defense 11 (–1 Dex,
+2 natural), touch 9, flatfooted 11; BAB +6; Grap +9; Atk +9 melee touch
(1d6+4 plus special, slam); Full Atk +9/+4 melee touch (1d6+4 plus special,
slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ blindsight 120 ft., corrupt the
mind (DC 18), immunities, ooze, telepathy, vessel of flesh (DC 18); AL evil;
SV Fort +4, Ref +1, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 9, Con 15, Int 18, Wis
17, Cha 18.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

