---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Doom Hag
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Doom Hag

##  Doom Hag

Standing 6 feet tall and weighing 175 pounds, a doom hag resembles a grizzled
crone. It is always clad in a shabby, tattered dress and shawl of a drab
color.

###  Species Traits

Confusion (Sp): A doom hag can use confusion three times per day, as the spell
cast by a 9th-level Mage (Will save negates; save DC 14 + the doom hag’s
Charisma modifier).

Mimicry (Ex): A doom hag can imitate (but not necessarily understand) the
sounds made by any person or animal it hears.

Natural Invisibility (Su): During daylight, a doom hag is naturally invisible
and remains so even when attacking. Any creature that correctly discerns the
doom hag’s location despite being unable to see it has a 50% miss chance on
melee and ranged attacks. This ability is always active, but the doom hag can
suppress it for 1 round with a successful Concentration check (DC 15). A new
check at the same DC is required for each subsequent round that it wishes to
remain visible. The doom hag is visible from sundown to sunup.

Rend (Ex): If a doom hag hits with both claw attacks, it latches onto the
opponent’s body and tears the flesh. The rending attack deals damage as a claw
attack plus 1.5 times the doom hag’s Strength modifier.

Skill Bonus: A doom hag blends into the gloom, gaining a +4 species bonus on
Hide checks at night or in darkness.

Undead: A doom hag has the traits and immunities common to undead.

Doom Hag: CR 6; Medium-size undead; HD 6d12; hp 39; Mas —; Init +0; Spd fly 30
ft. (perfect); Defense 18, touch 10, flat-footed 18 (+8 natural); BAB +3; Grap
+7; Atk +8 melee (1d4+4, claw); Full Atk +8 melee (1d4+4, 2 claws); FS 5 ft.
by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ confusion (DC 17), darkvision 60 ft., mimicry,
natural invisibility, rend 1d4+6, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +2,
Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 10, Con —, Int 15, Wis 17, Cha 16.

**Skills:** Bluff +11, Concentration +8, Hide +8 (+12 at night or in
darkness), Intimidate +8, Knowledge (arcane lore) +10, Listen +10, Move
Silently +8, Read/Write Language (any three), Speak Language (any three), Spot
+10.

**Feats:** Simple Weapons Proficiency, Stealthy, Weapon Focus (claw).

Possessions: Tattered clothing, collections of scalps, teeth, and thighbones.

**Advancement:** 7–15 HD (Medium-size).

