---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Jynx
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Jynx

##  Jynx

###  Species Traits

Electricity Immunity (Ex): A jynx is immune to electricity damage, though a
successful attack that deals such damage causes it to become visible (see
below).

Natural Invisibility (Su): A jynx remains invisible even when attacking. Any
creature that correctly discerns its location despite being unable to see it
has a 50% miss chance on melee and ranged attacks. This ability is always
active, but the jynx can suppress or resume it at will as a free action.

Rending Claws (Ex): A jynx’s claws ignore the hardness of items made of wood,
metal, or plastic.

Skill Bonus: A jynx gains a +4 species bonus on Disable Device checks.

Spider Climb (Sp): A jynx can travel on any surface as though affected by a
spider climb spell. This ability is always active.

Jynx: CR 1; Small fey; HD 1d6; hp 3; Mas 11; Init +4; Spd 30 ft., fly 150 ft.
(perfect); Defense 16, touch 15, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +4 Dex, +1 natural);
BAB +0; Grap –6; Atk +5 melee (1d3–2, claw); Full Atk +5 melee (1d3–2, 2
claws) or +4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ electricity immunity,
low-light vision, natural invisibility, rending claws, spider climb; AL chaos,
evil; SV Fort +0, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 7, Dex 18, Con 11, Int
15, Wis 16, Cha 14.

**Skills:** Balance +8, Climb +2, Disable Device +10, Escape Artist +8, Hide
+8, Jump +2, Listen +7, Move Silently +8, Pilot +8; Repair +3, Search +6, Spot
+7.

**Feats:** Dodge, Mobility, Weapon Finesse (claw).

Possessions: None.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Jynx Fast Hero 3: CR 4; Small fey; HD 1d6 plus 3d8; hp 17; Mas 11; Init +4;
Spd 30 ft., fly 150 ft. (perfect); Defense 20, touch 19, flat-footed 16 (+1
size, +4 Dex, +1 natural, +4 class); BAB +2; Grap –4; Atk +7 melee (1d3–2,
claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d3–2, 2 claws) or +6 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 5 ft.; SQ electricity immunity, low-light vision, natural invisibility,
rending claws, spider climb; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +6, Will +6; AP
1; Rep +1; Str 7, Dex 18, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 14.

Occupation: Adventurer.

**Skills:** Balance +14, Climb +2, Demolitions +8, Disable Device +16, Drive
+7, Escape Artist +14, Hide +8, Jump +4, Listen +7, Move Silently +8, Pilot
+11; Repair +3, Search +6, Spot +7, Tumble +12.

**Feats:** Acrobatic, Aircraft Operation (heavy aircraft), Aircraft Operation
(jet fighters), Dodge, Mobility, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Weapon Finesse
(claws).

Talents: Evasion, uncanny dodge 1.

Possessions: None.

