---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Sea Serpent
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Sea Serpent

##  Sea Serpent

A sea serpent has a snakelike body between 30 and 200 feet long. Other
features may vary with the individual creature— some sea serpents have slender
fins like those of an eel, while others have completely smooth bodies. The
head of one may be shaped like a horse, another like a seal.

###  Species Traits

Hazy Outline (Su): Part of the reason that so few sea serpents have ever been
spotted or photographed is that they can make their forms indistinct and
thereby blend into the lapping waves. As a full-round action, a sea serpent
can blur its outline for a number of rounds equal to its Hit Dice. This
distortion grants the sea serpent one-half concealment (20% miss chance). A
sea serpent cannot be recorded on any visual media while in this state—a
photograph shows only a fuzzy haze. A see invisibility spell does not
counteract this effect, but a true seeing spell does.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the sea serpent must hit an opponent
at least one size category smaller than itself with its bite attack. If it
gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage each round that the hold is
maintained, and it can swallow in the next round.

Skill Bonuses: The sea serpent’s coloration and shape grant it a +10 species
bonus on Hide checks made while it is in water.

Swallow Whole (Ex): If a sea serpent begins its turn with an opponent two or
more size categories smaller than itself held in its mouth, it can attempt a
new grapple check as though trying to pin the opponent. If it succeeds, it
swallows its opponent, automatically dealing bite damage. Once inside the sea
serpent, the opponent takes bludgeoning damage equal to the serpent’s tail
slap attack plus 1d6 points of acid damage per round from the monster’s
gullet. A successful grapple check allows the swallowed creature to climb out
of the gullet and return to the sea serpent’s maw, where another successful
grapple check is needed to get free. Alternatively, the swallowed creature can
attack from inside the gullet using claws or a Small or Tiny slashing weapon.
Dealing at least 20 points of damage to the gullet (Defense 25) in this way
creates an opening large enough to permit escape. Once a single swallowed
creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; thus, another swallowed
creature must cut its own way out. A Huge sea serpent’s gullet can hold 2
Medium-size, 8 Small, 32 Tiny, or 128 Diminutive or smaller opponents.

Sea Serpent: CR 7; Huge magical beast; HD 9d10+27; hp 76; Mas 17; Init +7; Spd
swim 60 ft.; Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 12 (–2 size, +3 Dex, +4
natural); BAB +9; Grap +25; Atk +15 melee (2d6+8, tail slap); Full Atk +15
melee (2d6+8, bite or tail slap); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft. (coiled); Reach 10 ft.;
SQ darkvision 60 ft., hazy outline, improved grab, low-light vision, swallow
whole; AL none; SV Fort +9, Ref +9, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 16, Con
17, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 9.

**Skills:** Hide +0 (+10 in water), Listen +7, Spot +7.

**Feats:** Improved Initiative, Power Attack.

**Advancement:** 10–18 HD (Gargantuan); 19–40 HD (Colossal).

Advanced Sea Serpent: CR 10; Colossal magical beast; HD 19d10+133; hp 237; Mas
25; Init +7; Spd swim 60 ft.; Defense 18, touch 5, flat-footed 15 (–8 size, +3
Dex, +13 natural); BAB +19; Grap +51; Atk +27 melee (4d6+16, tail slap); Full
Atk +27 melee (4d6+16, bite or tail slap); FS 30 ft. by 30 ft. (coiled); Reach
15 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., hazy outline, improved grab, low-light vision,
swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +18, Ref +14, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 42,
Dex 16, Con 25, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 9.

**Skills:** Hide –8 (+2 in water), Listen +7, Spot +7.

**Feats:** Cleave, Great Cleave, Improved Initiative, Power Attack.

