---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Infester
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Infester

##  Infester

###  Species Traits

Anesthetic Bite (Ex): The bite of an infester grub releases an anesthetic that
numbs nerves. An opponent that does not actually witness the attack must make
a successful Wisdom check (DC 20) to notice it.

Attach (Ex): If an infester grub successfully deals damage to a warm-blooded
opponent, it latches onto the latter’s body in the same round and begins to
burrow inside. The burrowing process takes 1 round to complete, during which
the grub is flat-footed (Defense 16). Once the grub has finished burrowing
into the host, only a tiny wound is left to indicate that anything is amiss.

Boost Host (Ex): An attached infester constantly pumps endorphins and other
chemicals into the host’s body, increasing its strength and instilling a sense
of euphoria and indestructibility. The host gains a +2 bonus to both Strength
and Constitution but takes a –2 penalty to Wisdom. These adjustments begin
within 1d6 rounds of attachment and remain in effect as long as the infester
is within the host’s body.

Host Protection (Ex): An attached infester uses its host’s base saving throw
bonuses if those are better than its own. Effects that target vermin can’t
affect an infester inside a host of another type.

Infestation (Ex): Once inside its host, an infester grub slowly makes its way
through the bloodstream until it reaches the torso, where it takes up
residence and begins drawing nutrients from the host’s body. During this
period, its boost host ability (see above) is constantly in effect.

Because of the infester’s unique nutritional needs, even a normally
herbivorous host gains an insatiable appetite for raw meat—particularly that
of its own species. Some instances of cannibalism are the result of infesters
that drove their hosts beyond the brink of sanity with their lust for meat.

After one month of incubation, the infester reaches its full adult size and
starts chewing its way out of the host’s torso. This process takes 1d6
minutes, during which the host experiences excruciating pain. The victim must
make a Fortitude save (DC 20) or die when the infester bursts from its torso.
Even on a successful save, the host still takes 6d6 points of damage.

Once freed from the host, the adult infester seeks out a pool of filth and mud
in which to live. It defends itself against any attacks but otherwise avoids
conflict. After 1d6 days, the infester gives birth to thousands of grubs and
then perishes, its body providing nourishment for its brood. Only a few of
these offspring survive beyond the first few hours. The remaining grubs wait
patiently until another unsuspecting creature comes along to repeat the cycle.

A successful Treat Injury check (DC 25) reveals the presence of an infester
inside a host. The parasite can be removed with surgery (Treat Injury DC 30).
A failure by 5 or more irritates the infester, which begins burrowing out of
the host prematurely, dealing 2d6 points of damage to its host (Fortitude DC
20 half).

Vermin: Infesters have blindsight out to a range of 60 feet. They are immune
to mind-affecting effects and gain a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to
negate the effects of massive damage.

Infester (grub): CR 1/10; Fine vermin; HD 1/16 d8; hp 1; Mas 11; Init +3; Spd
30 ft.; Defense 24, touch 18, flat-footed 16 (+8 size, +6 Dex); BAB +0; Grap
–21; Atk +3 melee (1, bite); Full Atk +3 melee (1, bite); FS 6 in. by 6 in.;
Reach 0 ft.; SQ anesthetic bite, attach, blindsight 60 ft., boost host, host
protection, infestation, vermin; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +6, Will +0; AP 0;
Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 23, Con 11, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 5.

**Skills:** Hide +24, Move Silently +8, Spot +6.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Infester (adult): CR 1; Tiny vermin; HD 1d8+3; hp 7; Mas 13; Init +3; Spd 30
ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB
+0; Grap –9; Atk +0 melee (1d3–2, bite); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3–1, bite); FS 2
1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ blindsight 60 ft., boost host, host
protection, infestation, vermin; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +0; AP 0;
Rep +0; Str 6, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 5.

**Skills:** Hide +14, Move Silently +6, Spot +6.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

