---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Cat Folk
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Cat Folk

##  Cat Folk

In its natural form, a cat folk is an attractive biped standing approximately
6 feet tall and weighing about 120 pounds. Its face and body are humanlike
except for several distinctly feline features: a short muzzle, whiskers,
vertical pupils, a long, graceful tail, and legs shaped like those of big
cats. Its body is covered in soft fur—usually black, although almost any shade
is possible. If desired, a cat folk can assume the form of a normal (albeit a
bit large) house cat with fur the same color as it has in its normal form. The
creature most often takes cat form to hide or run from attackers.

###  Species Traits

Alternate Form (Su): As an attack or move action, a cat folk can assume the
form of a normal-sized cat or revert to its natural form. In cat form, the
creature has the same physical statistics and attributes as a normal cat but
retains its normal Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as its
normal hit points. A cat folk can remain in either form indefinitely.

Automatic Languages: A cat folk reads, writes, and speaks Cat Folk. It can
also speak the language of other felines (cats, panthers, tigers, and the
like).

Bonus **Feats:** A cat folk receives Alertness as a bonus feat.

Claws (Ex): A cat folk has retractable claws that function as natural weapons.
Each claw deals 1d4 points of slashing damage (plus the creature’s Strength
bonus) and threatens a critical hit on a natural 20.

Feline Aversion (Ex): Any normal feline that can smell or see a cat folk must
make a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the cat folk’s Hit Dice + its
Charisma modifier) or flee in fear. A successful save means the feline is
shaken but does not flee. In either case, the feline attacks the cat folk only
if cornered. A cat folk is immune to its own feline aversion effect and to
those of other cat folk.

Mesmerizing Gaze (Su): Any mammalian creature within 30 feet of a cat folk
that meets its gaze must make a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the cat
folk’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or be dazed.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows a cat folk, regardless of its form, to detect
approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.

Slow Fall (Ex): A cat folk ignores falling damage from heights of 30 feet or
less. When falling from a greater height, it can attempt a Reflex save (DC 15)
to halve the damage.

Cat Folk: CR 2; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8–2; hp 7; Mas 9; Init
+7; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 13, flat-footed 11 (+3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB
+2; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws)
or +6 ranged (2d6, Glock 17); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ alternate
form, claws, feline aversion (DC 14), mesmerizing gaze (DC 14), scent; AL
evil; SV Fort –1, Ref +6, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 16, Con 9, Int
12, Wis 14, Cha 16.

**Skills:** Balance +8, Hide +8, Listen +7, Read/Write Cat Folk, Read/Write
English, Speak Cat Folk, Speak English, Spot +7, Tumble +7.

**Feats:** Alertness, Improved Initiative, Personal Firearms Proficiency,
Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Possessions: Glock 17 (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of ammunition, concealed
carry holster, formal outfit.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Cat Folk Fast Hero 1/Charismatic Hero 2: CR 5; Mediumsize monstrous humanoid;
HD 2d8–2 plus 1d6–2 plus 2d6–2; hp 15; Mas 9; Init +7; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 19,
touch 18, flatfooted 16 (+3 Dex, +1 natural, +5 class); BAB +3; Grap +3; Atk
+3 melee (1d4+1, claws); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+1, claws) or +7 ranged (2d6,
Glock 17); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ alternate form, claws, feline
aversion (DC 15), mesmerizing gaze (DC 15), scent; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref
+10, Will +5; AP 1; Rep +2; Str 10, Dex 16, Con 9, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 16.

**Skills:** Balance +10, Bluff +6, Disguise +8, Gather Information +7, Hide
+11, Knowledge (behavioral science) +5, Knowledge (streetwise) +5, Listen +10,
Read/ Write English, Read/Write Cat Folk, Speak English, Speak Cat Folk, Spot
+10, Tumble +8.

**Feats:** Alertness, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Personal Firearms
Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Talents (Fast Hero): Evasion.

Talents (Charismatic Hero): Charm.

Possessions: Glock 17 (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of ammunition, formal
outfit, concealed carry holster, cell phone.

