---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Snake, Cobra
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Snake, Cobra

##  Snake, Cobra

A typical cobra measures about 12 feet long, but some have been known to grow
to as much as 18 feet long.

###  Species Traits

Bonus Feat: Cobras gain Weapon Finesse (bite) as a bonus feat.

Poison (Ex): Bite—Fortitude negates; save DC 10 + 1/2 the cobra’s Hit Dice +
its Constitution modifier; 1d4 Str, 1d4 Dex/1d4 Str, 1d4 Dex.

Poison Spray (Ex): At will as a ranged touch attack, a spitting cobra can
spray its venom at a target up to 10 feet away. When used in this manner, the
spitting cobra’s venom acts as a contact poison. The target must succeed on a
Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the cobra’s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier)
or be blinded and nauseated for 1 minute. A second Fortitude save must be made
1 minute later to negate the venom’s secondary damage (same as the initial
damage). Eye protection, such as goggles or a full-face visor, negates the
blindness effect.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows a cobra to detect approaching enemies, sniff
out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.

Skill Bonuses: A cobra receives a +8 species bonus on Move Silently checks and
a +4 species bonus on Hide, Listen, and Spot checks. It applies either its
Strength or its Dexterity modifier, whichever is higher, to Climb checks.

Snake, Cobra: CR 2; Medium-size animal; HD 3d8; hp 13; Mas 11; Init +3; Spd 20
ft. (30 ft. for the black mamba), climb 5 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flat-
footed 11 (–1 size, +3 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2; Atk +5 melee (1d4
plus poison, bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4 plus poison, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5
ft. (coiled); Reach 5 ft.; SQ poison (DC 11), poison spray (DC 11; spitting
cobra only), scent; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
10, Dex 17, Con 11, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 2.

**Skills:** Climb +11, Hide +10, Listen +9, Move Silently +11, Spot +9.

**Feats:** Weapon Finesse (bite).

**Advancement:** None.

