---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Chemical Golem
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Chemical Golem

##  Chemical Golem

A typical chemical golem stands about 9 feet tall and weighs approximately
4,000 pounds.

A chemical golem is incapable of speech, though it can understand any language
spoken by its creator.

###  Species Traits

Berserk (Ex): When a chemical golem enters combat, it has a cumulative 1%
chance each round of going berserk. When the uncontrolled golem goes on a
rampage, it attacks the nearest living creature. It no creature is within
reach, it smashes some object smaller than itself, then moves on to spread
more destruction. Once the golem goes berserk, no known method can reestablish
control.

Breath Weapon (Ex): Once every 1d4 rounds, a chemical golem can breathe a
30-foot cone of acid and toxic fumes. Each creature in the area takes 5d6
points of acid damage (Reflex half) and 1d4 points of Constitution damage
(Fortitude negates). The DC for both saves is 10 + 1/2 the golem’s Hit Dice.

Chemical Healing (Ex): A chemical golem does not heal normally, but it can
drink toxic liquids (such as acid, poison, or cleaning supplies) to heal
itself. The creature heals 1 point of damage per 8 points of Purchase DC that
it consumes in toxic chemicals. A chemical golem has no ability to discern
which substances can heal it, so its creator must either command it to drink
the appropriate chemicals on the spot or provide it with precise commands and
a ready supply so that it can heal itself. A chemical golem gains no benefit
from drinking a substance not considered immediately harmful to humans. The
consumed liquids mix with the chemicals inside the golem and are destroyed.

Construct: A chemical golem has the traits and immunities common to
constructs.

Damage Reduction 15/+1 (Su): A chemical golem ignores the first 15 points of
damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the
GM can either disregard the chemical golem’s damage reduction or apply it only
to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or
sonic/concussion).

Magic Immunity (Ex): A chemical golem is immune to all spells, spell-like
abilities, and supernatural effects, except one. A neutralize poison spell or
effect slows the creature (as the slow spell) for 2d6 rounds, with no saving
throw.

Rupture (Ex): If the chemical golem takes at least 10 points of damage (after
damage reduction) from a single hit with a piercing or slashing weapon, its
membrane ruptures, spraying a 10-foot cone of burning liquid and noxious fumes
in the direction from which the attack originated. Each creature in the area
takes 2d6 points of fire damage (Reflex half) and 1d4 points of Constitution
damage (Fortitude negates). The DC for both saves is 10 + 1/2 the golem’s Hit
Dice.

When the chemical golem is reduced to 0 hit points, its membrane collapses,
spilling out all the remaining chemicals inside as a 15-foot-radius burst of
acid, flame, and deadly gases. Every creature in the area takes 10d6 points of
damage (half acid and half fire; Reflex half) and 2d4 points of Constitution
damage (Fortitude negates). The DC for both saves is 10 + 1/2 the golem’s Hit
Dice.

Chemical Golem: CR 10; Large construct; HD 9d10; hp 49; Mas —; Init –1; Spd 20
ft (can’t run); Defense 20, touch 8, flat-footed 19 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +10
natural); BAB +11; Grap +15; Atk +11 melee (2d8+6, slam); Full Atk +11 melee
(2d8+6, 2 slams) or +10 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ berserk,
breath weapon, chemical healing, construct, damage reduction 15/+1, magic
immunity, rupture; AL creator; SV Fort +3, Ref+2 , Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
23, Dex 9, Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 10–18 HD (Large); 19–27 HD (Huge).

Advanced Chemical Golem: CR 13; Huge construct; HD 19d10; hp 104; Mas —; Init
–2; Spd 20 ft (can’t run); Defense 23, touch 8, flat-footed 18 (–2 size, –2
Dex, +13 natural); BAB +11; Grap +15; Atk +11 melee (2d8+6, slam); Full Atk
+11 melee (2d8+6, 2 slams) or +10 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ
berserk, breath weapon, chemical healing, construct, damage reduction 15/+1,
magic immunity, rupture; AL creator; SV Fort +6, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep
+0; Str 31, Dex 7, Con —, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

