---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Bogeyman (Template)
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Bogeyman (Template)

##  Bogeyman (Template)

###  Template Traits

“Bogeyman” is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal humanoid
(referred to hereafter as the “base creature”). The creature retains its
humanoid type. It uses all the base creature’s statistics and special
abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: Same as base creature +1.

Defense: The base creature’s natural armor bonus improves by +3.

Special Qualities: A bogeyman retains all the special qualities of the base
creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.

Death’s Door (Su): A bogeyman appears to die if reduced to –10 hit points.
However, unless it is reduced to its negative Constitution score in hit
points, its “death” is only temporary; when the bogeyman’s fast healing
ability (see below) brings its hit point total to 1 or higher, it springs back
to life.

Fast Healing 5 (Su): A bogeyman heals 5 points of damage per round until it is
reduced to its negative Constitution score, at which point it dies. This
ability does not enable the bogeyman to regrow or reattach severed body parts.

Immunities (Ex): A bogeyman is immune to disease, mind-affecting effects,
necromantic effects, paralysis, poison, and sleep. It is not subject to
nonlethal damage.

Allegiances: Previous allegiances are lost; Replaced by an allegiance to evil.
Changed allegiances might cause the loss of particular class abilities.

Saves: Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.

Ability Scores: A bogeyman gains the following ability score increases: Str
+2, Con +4. A bogeyman must have a minimum Constitution score of 11.

Languages: A bogeyman rarely speaks, but it can read, write, and understand
whatever languages the base creature could.

**Feats:** A bogeyman gains Great Fortitude and Improved Damage Threshold as
bonus feats, assuming that it meets the prerequisites and the base creature
did not already have those feats. A human bogeyman keeps the extra feat it
gained as a 1st-level human character.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Bogeyman Tough Hero 9: CR 10; Medium-size humanoid; HD 9d10+63; hp 112; Mas
33; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 19, touch 11, flat-footed 18 (+1 Dex, +3
natural, +5 class); BAB +6; Grap +9; Atk +11 melee (1d8+3 nonlethal, unarmed
strike); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +9 melee (by
weapon) or +7 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ death’s door, fast
healing 5, immunities; AL evil; SV Fort +13, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 5; Rep +3;
Str 16, Dex 12, Con 24, Int 11, Wis 14, Cha 12.

Occupation: Law Enforcement.

**Skills:** Hide +7, Intimidate +13, Listen +8, Move Silently +4, Read/Write
English, Speak English.

**Feats:** Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Blind-
Fight, Brawl, Endurance, Great Fortitude, Improved Brawl, Improved Damage
Threshold (×3), Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency Sunder.

Talents: Damage reduction 1/—, robust, stamina.

Possessions: Variety of slashing weapons.

