---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Maniac (Template)
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Maniac (Template)

##  Maniac (Template)

###  Template Traits

“Maniac” is an acquired template that can be added to any humanoid or
monstrous humanoid (referred to hereafter as the “base creature”). The
creature retains its original type. It uses all the base creature’s statistics
and special abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: Same as base creature +1.

Hit Dice: Change to d12.

Attacks: A maniac retains all the attacks of the base creature and gains a
slam attack if the base creature didn’t already have one. If the base creature
did not have a slam attack, use the base damage values in the table below.
Otherwise, use the values below or the base creature’s base damage, whichever
is greater.


<table> <tr> <th> Size </th> <th> Slam Damage </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Fine </td> <td> 1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Diminutive </td> <td> 1d2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Tiny </td> <td> 1d3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Small </td> <td> 1d4 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Medium-size </td> <td> 1d6 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Large </td> <td> 1d8 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Huge </td> <td> 2d6 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Gargantuan </td> <td> 2d8 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Colossal </td> <td> 4d6 </td> </tr> </table>



Special Qualities: A maniac retains all the special qualities of the base
creature and gains the additional qualities described below.

Ability Surge (Ex): Once per day as a free action, the maniac can temporarily
increase its Strength and Dexterity scores, but doing so imposes a penalty on
its saving throws. While this ability is in effect, the maniac gains a +4
morale bonus to both Strength and Dexterity but takes a –2 penalty on all
saving throws. Ability surge lasts for a number of rounds equal to the
maniac’s character level. Following an ability surge, the maniac is fatigued
(–2 to Strength and Dexterity) for as many rounds as the surge was in effect,
but it may negate this penalty as a free action by spending an action point.

Damage Reduction 5/– (Ex): A maniac ignores the first 5 points of damage dealt
by any attack.

Immunities (Ex): A maniac is immune to mind-affecting effects.

Resistance to Massive Damage (Ex): A maniac gains a +5 species bonus on
Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.

Allegiances: Previous allegiances are lost and replaced by allegiances to
chaos and evil. Changed allegiances might cause the loss of particular class
abilities.

Saves: Same as the base creature, with a +2 bonus on Fortitude saves, and
modified by new ability scores.

Ability Scores: A maniac gains the following ability score increases: Str +4,
Con +4.

**Feats:** A maniac gains Improved Damage Threshold and Toughness as bonus
feats.

Maniac (Strong Hero 2/Tough Hero 3): CR 6; Mediumsize humanoid; HD 5d12+20
plus 3 (robust) plus 3 (Toughness); hp 58; Mas 22; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.;
Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 class); BAB +4; Grap +8; Atk
+8 melee (1d4+5/19–20 nonlethal, improved unarmed strike) or +8 melee (1d6+5,
slam) or +8 melee (3d6+5, chain saw); Full Atk +8 melee (1d4+5/19–20
nonlethal, improved unarmed strike) or +8 melee (1d6+5, slam) or +8 melee
(3d6+5, chain saw) or +5 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ ability
surge, damage reduction 5/–, immunities, resistance to massive damage; AL
chaos, evil; SV Fort +12, Ref +2, Will +2; AP 2; Rep +1; Str 18, Dex 13, Con
19, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 10.

**Skills:** Climb +9, Jump +9, Read/Write English, Speak English, Spot +4,
Survival +4.

Talents (Strong Hero): Melee smash.

Talents (Tough Hero): Remain conscious, robust.

**Feats:** Combat Martial Arts, Great Fortitude, Improved Combat Martial Arts,
Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency,
Toughness.

Possessions: Chain saw, Halloween mask, bloodstained overalls.

