---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Rogue Tulpa
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Rogue Tulpa

##  Rogue Tulpa

Shamans and students of psychic powers have for centuries practiced the
creation of tulpas—spirit duplicates that are indistinguishable from their
creators and can operate independently of them. Only the most accomplished
shamans can make tulpas. However, a few deranged individuals, brimming with
latent psychic power, have somehow managed to create tulpas spontaneously,
with no training whatsoever. Such a “rogue tulpa” is a psychic construct bent
on murder and fueled by rage. Although it knows the inner workings of its
creator’s mind, a rogue tulpa exists independently, feeding on the mental
energies of other beings while it acts out its creator’s most psychotic whims
and desires.

Standing as much as 10 feet tall and weighing more than 500 pounds, a rogue
tulpa is a horrifying sight. Despite its warty hide, daggerlike teeth, and
sickle-sharp claws, the tulpa’s features vaguely resemble those of its
original creator—enough so that someone who survives a close encounter with
the tulpa could, theoretically, identify the creator.

If a rogue tulpa’s creator dies, the creature continues to act on its own,
carrying out whatever agenda of destruction its creator had last espoused. If
its creator died at the hands of another, the rogue tulpa may seek revenge on
that person.

###  Species Traits

Automatic Language: A rogue tulpa can read, write, and speak whatever
languages its creator can.

Cold Resistance 20 (Ex): A rogue tulpa ignores the first 20 points of cold
damage from any single attack.

Damage Reduction 10/+1: A rogue tulpa ignores the first 10 points of damage
dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can
either disregard the rogue tulpa’s damage reduction or apply it only to
certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or
sonic/concussion).

Dimension Door (Sp): A rogue tulpa can use dimension door five times per day
(caster level 8th).

Mind Feed (Ex): If a rogue tulpa hits with its bite attack, it deals 1d4
points of Intelligence damage in addition to the normal damage for the attack.
If this damage reduces the opponent’s Intelligence score to 0, all unrestored
Intelligence damage dealt to the opponent up until that point becomes
Intelligence drain instead.

Psionics (Sp): At will—brain lock, telekinesis. Manifester level 10th; save DC
10 + rogue tulpa’s key ability modifier + power level.

Regeneration 5 (Ex): A rogue tulpa regenerates 5 points of damage each round
but cannot regenerate fire or acid damage. If a rogue tulpa loses a limb or
body part, the lost portion regrows in 3d6 minutes. The creature can reattach
the severed member instantly by holding it to the stump.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows a rogue tulpa to detect approaching enemies,
sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.

Rogue Tulpa: CR 8; Large monstrous humanoid; HD 6d8+30; hp 57; Mas 21; Init
+5; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 10, flatfooted 17 (–1 size, +1 Dex, +8
natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, claw); Full Atk +11 melee
(1d6+6, 2 claws) and +6 melee (1d6+3 plus 1d4 Int, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.;
Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold resistance 20, damage reduction 10/+1, darkvision 90
ft., dimension door, mind feed, psionics, regeneration 5, scent; AL chaos,
evil; SV Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 12, Con 21, Int
10, Wis 16, Cha 6.

**Skills:** Listen +14, Move Silently +3, Read/Write Navajo, Search +8, Speak
Navajo, Spot +14.

**Feats:** Alertness, Improved Initiative.

**Advancement:** 7–12 HD (Large); 13–24 HD (Huge).

Advanced Rogue Tulpa: CR 10; Huge monstrous humanoid; HD 13d8+91; hp 149; Mas
25; Init +5; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 19, touch 8, flat-footed 19 (–2 size, +11
natural); BAB +13; Grap +31; Atk +21 melee (2d4+10, claw); Full Atk +21 melee
(2d4+10, 2 claws) and +6 melee (1d8+5 plus 1d4 Int, bite); FS 15 ft. by 15
ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold resistance 20, damage reduction 10/+1, darkvision
90 ft., dimension door, mind feed, psionics, regeneration 5, scent; AL chaos,
evil; SV Fort +11, Ref +8, Will +11; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 10, Con 25, Int
10, Wis 16, Cha 6.

**Skills:** Listen +16, Move Silently +10, Read/Write Navajo, Search +11,
Speak Navajo, Spot +16.

**Feats:** Alertness, Cleave, Improved Initiative, Power Attack.

