---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Malleable Creature (Template)
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Malleable Creature (Template)

##  Malleable Creature (Template)

###  Template Traits

“Malleable creature” is an acquired template that can be added to any
corporeal humanoid or monstrous humanoid (referred to hereafter as the “base
creature”). The creature retains its original type. It uses the base
creature’s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: Same as base creature +1.

Grapple Bonus: A malleable creature gains a +4 species bonus on grapple
checks.

Special Qualities: A malleable creature retains all the special qualities of
the base creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.

Bludgeoning Resistance 5 (Ex): A malleable creature ignores the first 5 points
of bludgeoning damage from any single attack.

Increased Reach (Ex): The reach of a malleable creature increases by 5 feet.

Malleable Form (Ex): This ability allows a malleable creature to make itself
look different. It can appear 1 foot shorter or taller than its normal height,
and it can seem thinner or fatter. It cannot change its skin, hair color, body
type, or number of limbs. This ability does not allow the malleable creature
to mimic the appearance of specific individuals.

As a full-round action, a malleable creature can squeeze through an opening as
small as 6 inches square. In the case of an enclosed space, such as a
drainpipe or airshaft, the malleable creature moves at one-third of its normal
speed, but it can take no other actions until at least half of its body mass
has emerged from the enclosure. Objects and clothing worn by the malleable
creature may or may not be small enough to fit through the opening—objects
larger than Tiny are left behind unless every part of the opening is large
enough to accommodate them.

Saves: Same as the base creature, with a +1 species bonus on Fortitude saves,
and modified by new ability scores.

Ability Scores: A malleable creature’s ability scores change as follows: Con
+2, Dex –4.

Skill Bonuses: A malleable creature’s pliant body grants it a +4 species bonus
on Disguise checks and a +10 species bonus on Escape Artist checks.

Bonus Feat: A malleable creature gains Nimble as a bonus feat.

Malleable Human Tough Hero 4/Dedicated Hero 3: CR 8; Medium-size humanoid; HD
4d10+16 plus 3d6+12 plus 3 (Toughness); hp 63; Mas 19; Init –2; Spd 30 ft.;
Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 16 (–2 Dex, +5 class, +3 undercover vest);
BAB +5; Grap +10; Atk +6 melee (1d4+1, unarmed strike) or +3 ranged (2d6,
Beretta 92F); Full Atk +6 melee (1d4+1, unarmed strike) or +3 ranged (2d6,
Beretta 92F); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ bludgeoning resistance 5,
increased reach, malleable form; AL any; SV Fort +11, Ref +0, Will +6; AP 3;
Rep +2; Str 12, Dex 6, Con 19, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 11.

**Skills:** Bluff +8, Climb +3, Concentration +6, Disguise +13, Escape Artist
+14, Knowledge (current events) +2, Read/ Write English, Speak English, Spot
+7, Survival +7.

**Feats:** Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Martial Arts, Defensive Martial
Arts, Great Fortitude, Improved Combat Martial Arts, Nimble, Simple Weapons
Proficiency, Toughness.

Talents (Tough Hero): Damage reduction 1/–, remain conscious.

Talents (Dedicated Hero): Intuition, skill emphasis (Disguise).

Possessions: Undercover vest, Beretta 92F (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of 9mm
ammunition, disguise kit.

