---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Fiend 
excerpt: Baal
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > [ Fiend ](menaces-d20-menaces-fiend-index) >
Baal

##  Baal (Unique Archfiend)

The archfiend Baal feeds on the corruption of mortals who hunger for wealth
and power. As the gap between rich and poor grows ever wider, Baal grows ever
more powerful. In this age of nearly limitless corporate expansion and
official policies that favor greed and dehumanization, his power is at an all-
time high.

Alternate Form (Su): At will as a free action, Baal can assume the form of a
human male or revert to his normal form. He can retain either form
indefinitely.

Aura of Greed (Su): Once per day as a free action, Baal can create an aura of
greed extending out from his body in a 20-foot radius. Except as noted here,
the effect functions like the psionic power domination (manifester level
10th). Each creature within this area must make a successful Will save (DC 21)
or be overcome with greed. A creature that fails its saving throw must
immediately attack another random creature within 60 feet (possibly even Baal
himself) and attempt to take its valuables. If no target is within reach, the
affected creature must move toward a randomly chosen target it can see and
attack it as soon as possible. This effect is Charisma-based and lasts for 1d4
rounds. As a move action, Baal can specify one creature for other affected
creatures to attack instead of allowing random targeting. In this case, the
Will save DC drops to 15.

Damage Reduction 10/+2 (Su): Baal ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt
by any weapon with a magical bonus lower than +2. In campaigns without magic
weapons, the GM can either disregard Baal’s damage reduction or apply it only
to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or
sonic/concussion).

Fear Aura (Su): At will as a free action, Baal can create an aura of fear in a
20-foot radius around himself. This effect is otherwise identical to that of a
fear spell (caster level 10th; Will DC 21). A creature that succeeds on the
saving throw cannot be affected again by Baal’s fear aura for 24 hours.

Immunities (Ex): Baal is immune to fire and poison.

Resistances (Ex): Baal has cold resistance 20 and electricity resistance 20.

Spell-Like Abilities: At will—augury, bane, bestow curse, command, comprehend
languages, confusion, detect magical aura, discern lies, dispel magic, enhance
ability, faith’s fury, fireball, flaming projectiles, flaming wrath, greater
command, hold monster, inflict critical wounds, inflict light wounds, inflict
moderate wounds, inflict serious wounds, knock, mass inflict light wounds,
passwall, prestidigitation, read magic, see invisibility, telekinesis, true
seeing, wall of fire. Caster level 10th; save DC 17 + spell level.

Baal, Charismatic Hero 10/Negotiator 8: CR 25; Huge outsider; HD 8d8+80 plus
10d6+100 plus 8d8+80; hp 367; Mas 31; Init +4; Spd 30 ft., fly 80 ft. (poor);
Defense 34, touch 12, flat-footed 30 (–2 size, +4 Dex, +6 class, +16 natural);
BAB +19; Grap +36; Atk +26 melee (2d6+9, claw); Full Atk +26 melee (2d6+9, 2
claws), or +26/+21/+16/+11 melee (by weapon), or +22/+17/+12/+7 ranged; FS 10
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ alternate form, aura of greed, conceal motive,
damage reduction 10/+2, darkvision 120 ft., fear aura, immune to fire and
poison, no sweat, react first, resistances, sow distrust, spell-like
abilities, talk down several opponents; AL evil, law; SV Fort +25, Ref +17,
Will +24; AP 8; Rep +11; Str 28, Dex 19, Con 31, Int 30, Wis 24, Cha 25.

Occupation: Entrepreneur.

Skills:, Bluff +44, Computer Use +18, Concentration +16, Diplomacy +44,
Forgery +16, Gamble +26, Gather Information +28, Intimidate +43, Knowledge
(arcane lore) +29, Knowledge (behavioral sciences) +34, Knowledge (business)
+46, Knowledge (civics) +46, Knowledge (current events) +40, Knowledge
(history) +24, Knowledge (technology) +18, Knowledge (theology and philosophy)
+16, Listen +13, Profession +41, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write Arabic,
Read/Write Dutch, Read/Write English, Read/Write French, Read/Write German,
Read/Write Greek, Read/ Write Italian, Read/Write Japanese, Read/Write
Russian, Read/Write Spanish, Research +19, Sense Motive +32, Speak Abyssal,
Speak Arabic, Speak Dutch, Speak English, Speak French, Speak German, Speak
Greek, Speak Italian, Speak Japanese, Speak Russian, Speak Spanish, Spot +13.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Cleave, Confident, Deceptive, Educated,
Frightful Presence, Iron Will, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Power Attack,
Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Sunder, Trustworthy, Windfall (×4).

Talents (Charismatic Hero): Charm (males), coordinate, favor, greater
inspiration, inspiration.

Possessions: Vast personal and corporate wealth, collection of ancient Middle
Eastern religious artifacts.

