---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Udoroot
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Udoroot

##  Udoroot

Udoroots are enormous carnivorous plants that possess psionic powers. The bulk
of an udoroot lies beneath the soil. Its massive, bulbous root system can
reach down as far as 30 feet below the surface. The above-ground portion of
the plant consists of six stalks, each topped by a single flower crown. These
crowns resemble mature sunflowers with red seeds, white petals, and tough,
woody stalks. They grow in a circle that can reach 20 feet in diameter.

An udoroot can be killed only by digging up or otherwise exposing its root,
then burning it, hacking it apart, or totally destroying it in some other
manner. Severing or psionically disabling all six crowns negates the plant’s
ability to attack and makes excavation of the root easier. To sever a crown,
an opponent must penetrate the woody bark of the stalk (hardness 5, hp 7). A
severed crown dies, but the udoroot suffers no ill effects other than its
absence. As long as the creature’s root remains intact, any severed crowns
regrow in about a month. A psionic creature can also overcome a crown in
psionic combat by reducing any one of the creature’s ability scores to 0. This
attack does not harm the main root or any other crowns, which must be attacked
separately to deal any damage.

###  Species Traits

Blindsight (Ex): An udoroot is blind but can ascertain all creatures and
objects within 40 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range,
all targets have total concealment with respect to the udoroot

Cold Resistance 20 (Ex): An udoroot ignores the first 20 points of cold damage
from any single attack.

Immunities (Ex): An udoroot is immune to electricity and fire damage.

Plant: Udoroots have the traits and immunities common to plants.

Psionics (Sp): At will—false sensory input, lesser body adjustment, lightning
strike, telekinesis. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + udoroot’s key ability
modifier + power level.

Udoroot: CR 5; Huge plant; HD 6d8+18; hp 45; Mas —; Init +0; Spd 0 ft.;
Defense 14, touch 8, flat-footed 14 (–2 size, +6 natural); BAB +4; Grap —; Atk
none; Full Atk none; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft. per stalk; Reach 10 ft. per stalk; SQ
blindsight 40 ft., cold resistance 20, immunities, plant, psionics; AL none;
SV Fort +8, Ref +2, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 3, Dex 10, Con 16, Int —, Wis
13, Cha 9.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 7–16 HD (Huge); 17–32 HD (Gargantuan).

Advanced Udoroot: CR 8; Gargantuan plant; HD 17d8+85; hp 161; Mas —; Init +0;
Spd 0 ft.; Defense 16, touch 6, flat-footed 16 (–4 size, +10 natural); BAB
+12; Grap —; Atk none; Full Atk none; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft. per stalk; Reach 15
ft. per stalk; SQ cold resistance 20, blindsight 40 ft., immunities, plant,
psionics; AL none; SV Fort +15, Ref +5, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 10,
Con 20, Int —, Wis 13, Cha 9.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

