---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Fiend 
excerpt: Harriken (Headsnatcher Fiend)
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > [ Fiend ](menaces-d20-menaces-fiend-index) >
Harriken (Headsnatcher Fiend)

##  Harriken (Headsnatcher Fiend)

A harriken can detach its head from its body and replace it with the
decapitated head of any humanoid creature. In so doing, it can assume the dead
creature’s form.

To kill a harriken, one must destroy its head. While wearing the head and
assuming the form of another creature, a harriken will usually entrust its
detached head to loyal underlings or hide it somewhere safe.

Attach Head (Ex): As an attack or move action, a harriken can attach a head
(either its own detached head or the severed head of any Medium-size humanoid
creature) to its headless body. It gains the visual, auditory, and olfactory
senses of the creature whose head it wears; if the creature had low-light
vision, for instance, the harriken gains this ability for as long as the head
is worn.

The creature from which the head is taken must have died within the past 24
hours; otherwise, any attempt by the harriken to graft the head onto its body
fails.

Body Blindsight (Ex): A harriken’s headless body can sense its surroundings as
though it has the blindsight ability with a range of 30 feet. However, without
its own head, the harriken loses its darkvision.

Detach Head (Ex): As an attack or move action, a harriken can detach the head
(either its own head or the severed head of any Medium-size humanoid creature)
from its body.

Disguise Self (Su): The harriken can assume the appearance of a specific
Medium-size humanoid creature by attaching the creature’s severed head to its
body. The illusion lasts as long as the head remains attached. The harriken
does not gain any of the creature’s abilities, mannerisms, or knowledge, but
it gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks. Other creatures get a Will save (DC
10 + 1/2 the harriken’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) to pierce the
illusion if they interact with it (such as by touching the harriken and having
that sensory input not match what they see). A true seeing spell reveals the
harriken’s actual horrific appearance.

Electrical Rejuvenation (Ex): A harriken is immune to electricity.
Furthermore, it heals 1 point of damage for every die of electricity damage it
would take normally. For example, a 6d6 lightning bolt heals 6 points of
damage to the harriken.

Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): A harriken ignores the first 10 points of damage from
any attack that deals fire damage.

Indestructible Body (Su): While its head is attached to its body, a harriken
can be killed. However, if its head is detached, the body stops taking damage
when reduced to 1 hit point. Any damage dealt to the body that would knock it
below 1 hit point is ignored. If the harriken’s detached head is found and
destroyed (Defense 7; hp 5), the harriken’s body is instantly slain.

Telepathy (Su): A harriken can communicate telepathically with any creature
within 100 feet that has a language.

Harriken (headsnatcher fiend): CR 4; Medium-size outsider; HD 4d8+4; hp 22;
Mas 13; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 21 (+9 natural, +2 leather armor), touch
10, flatfooted 21; BAB +4; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d6+1, slam) or +5 melee
(1d8+1/19–20, longsword); Full Atk +5 melee (1d6+1, slam) or +5 melee
(1d8+1/19–20, longsword) or +4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
Attach head, body blindsight, darkvision 60 ft., detach head, disguise self
(DC 15), electrical rejuvenation, fire resistance 10, indestructible body,
telepathy; AL evil; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 11,
Con 13, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 16.

Skills: Bluff +10, Disguise +10 (+20 when using disguise self ability), Hide
+6, Intimidate +9, Listen +6, Move Silently +6, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write
Languages (any three), Sense Motive +6, Speak Abyssal, Speak Languages (any
three), Spot +6.

Feat: Heroic Surge (1/day).

Advancement: By character class.

