---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title:  Menaces
excerpt: Thought Eater
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[ d20 Menaces ](/#menacesD20) > [ Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Thought Eater

##  Thought Eater

A thought eater is a 3-foot-long creature with flesh of wispy protomatter,
through which its skeleton is visible. It has the body shape of a predatory
feline and the skull and claws of a cruel bird of prey.

###  Species Traits

Bonus Feat: A thought eater gains Improved Initiative as a bonus feat.

Dimensional Jaunt (Su): At will, a thought eater can shift from a different
plane of existence into the normal world as part of any move action and shift
back again as a free action. During this jaunt, the thought eater is
incorporeal.

In this state, a thought eater has no physical form and can be harmed only by
other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, though it
has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. The thought
eater can pass through solid objects at will, and its own attacks pass through
armor. It moves in complete silence and cannot be heard at all.

Eat Thoughts (Su): A thought eater can drain the thoughts of a living being
with a successful melee touch attack. Against an opponent with psionics, this
ability drains 6 power points from the victim. (If the victim has fewer than 6
power points, the thought eater gains all the remaining power points that the
opponent possesses). Against a nonpsionic creature, this attack deals 1 point
of Intelligence damage, which provides the thought eater with nourishment
equivalent to 6 power points. A thought eater requires the equivalent of 10
power points per day to survive, but it happily gorges itself whenever the
opportunity presents itself. Power points consumed in excess of its minimum
daily requirement do not count against the next day’s requirement.

Psionics (Sp): At will—daze, detect psionics, distract, verve. Manifester
level 10th; save DC 10 + thought eater’s key ability modifier + power level.

Thought Eater: CR 2; Small aberration; HD 3d8+3; hp 16; Mas 11; Init +8; Spd
40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 15, flat-footed 13 (+1 size, +4 Dex, +2 natural);
BAB +2; Grap –2; Atk +3 melee touch (6 power points or 1 Int, touch); Full Atk
+3 melee touch (6 power points or 1 Int, touch); SQ dimensional jaunt, eat
thoughts, psionics; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +1, Ref
+5, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 18, Con 11, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 10.

**Skills:** Hide +14, Listen +7, Spot +7.

**Feats:** Improved Initiative.

**Advancement:** 4–6 HD (Small).

