---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title: Menaces
excerpt: Ghoul (Template)
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[d20 Menaces](/#menacesD20) > [Menaces](menaces-d20-menaces-index) > Ghoul (Template)

## Ghoul (Template)

### Template Traits

“Ghoul” is an acquired template that can be added to any living corporeal
creature that has flesh (referred to hereafter as the “base creature”). The
creature’s type changes to undead. It uses all the base creature’s statistics
and special abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: Same as base creature +2.

Hit Dice: Change to d12.

Defense: The base creature’s natural armor bonus improves by +2.

Attacks: A ghoul retains all the attacks of the base creature. It also gains a
bite attack and two claw attacks if the base creature didn’t already have
them. If the base creature did not have bite or claw attacks, use the base
damage values in the table below. Otherwise, use the values below or the base
creature’s base damage, whichever is greater.


<table> <tr><th>Size</th><th>Bite Damage</th><th>Claw Damage</th></tr> <tr><td>Fine </td><td>1</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Diminutive </td><td>1d2</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>Tiny </td><td>1d3</td><td>1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Small </td><td>1d4</td><td>1d2</td></tr> <tr><td>Medium-size </td><td>1d6</td><td>1d3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Large </td><td>1d8</td><td>1d4</td></tr> <tr><td>Huge </td><td>2d6</td><td>1d6</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Gargantuan </td><td>2d8</td><td>2d4</td></tr> <tr><td>Colossal </td><td>4d6</td><td>2d6</td></tr> </table>


Special Qualities: A ghoul retains all the special qualities of the base
creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.

Create Spawn (Su): If a ghoul’s prey contracts advanced necrotizing faciitis
(see below) from the wounds it has sustained and dies from the disease, it
rises 1d3 days later as a ghoul. A remove disease spell cast on the corpse can
prevent it from rising.

Disease (Su): A ghoul’s bite infects the victim with a supernatural version of
streptococcal gangrene (injury; Fort DC 14; incubation period 1d3 days;
initial damage 1d3 Con; secondary damage 1d3 Con. If Con damage is sustained,
a second saving throw at the same DC is required; failure indicates that 1
point of the Con damage becomes Con drain instead). This disease, known as
advanced necrotizing faciitis, first manifests as an area of redness on the
skin near the wound. Over the course of a few days, the redness becomes severe
inflammation. The skin gradually turns dark purple and forms bloody blisters
as the disease devours more and more of the victim’s flesh. The disease can be
arrested completely through amputation of the affected limb, but most doctors
prefer to combat it by surgical removal of all the affected tissue as well as
some nearby healthy tissue. A cure disease spell or a successful Treat Injury
check (surgery, DC 25) halts the disease. The GM should roll the check
secretly; if it fails, the disease returns again in 1d3 days.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows a ghoul to detect approaching enemies, sniff
out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.

Undead: Ghouls have the traits and immunities common to undead.

Allegiances: Previous allegiances are lost and replaced by allegiances to
chaos and evil. Changed allegiances might cause the loss of particular class
abilities.

Saves: Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.

Ability Scores: A ghoul gains the following ability score increases: Str +2,
Dex +2. As an undead creature, a ghoul has no Constitution score.

Language(s): A ghoul can read, write, and speak whatever languages it could in
life.

**Skills:** Same as the base creature, modified for new ability scores. A
human ghoul retains the extra skill points afforded to all humans.

**Feats:** A ghoul gains Multiattack as a bonus feat, assuming the base
creature meets the prerequisites and doesn’t already have the feat. A human
ghoul keeps the extra feat it gained as a 1st-level human character.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Ghoul (Human Strong Ordinary 1/Tough Ordinary 1): CR 3; Medium-size undead; HD
2d12; hp 13; Mas —; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12
(+2 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d3+3, claw); Full Atk +4
melee (1d3+3, 2 claws) and +2 melee (1d6+1 plus disease, bite) or +3 ranged;
FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ create spawn, darkvision 60 ft., disease,
scent, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +2, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
16, Dex 14, Con —, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 8.

Occupation: Blue collar (class skills: Drive, Intimidate)

**Skills:** Craft (mechanical) +5, Drive +6, Intimidate +3, Knowledge (popular
culture) +2, Knowledge (streetwise) +2, Profession +4, Read/ Write English,
Repair +2, Speak English, Swim +4.

**Feats:** Brawl, Multiattack, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons
Proficiency.

Possessions: None.

