---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title: General Equipment
excerpt: Lifestyle
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[Modern d20 SRD](/#modernD20) > [Equipment](modern-d20-srd-equipment-index) > [General Equipment](modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-general) > Lifestyle

## Lifestyle

Lifestyle items include travel expenses, entertainment and meals beyond the
ordinary, and housing, for those characters interested in buying a home rather
than renting. Lifestyle items are shown on the table below.

### Housing


<table> <tr> <th>Housing</th> <th>Purchase DC</th> </tr> <tr><td> Small condo</td><td> 28 </td></tr> <tr><td> Large condo</td><td> 30 </td></tr> <tr><td> Small house</td><td> 30 </td></tr> <tr><td> Medium house</td><td> 32 </td></tr> <tr><td> Large house</td><td> 34 </td></tr> <tr><td> Mansion</td><td> 36 </td></tr> </table>

 
<table> <tr> <th>Lodging</th> <th>Purchase DC</th></tr> <tr><td> Budget motel</td><td> 7 </td></tr> <tr><td>Average hotel</td><td> 9 </td></tr> <tr><td>Upscale hotel</td><td> 11 </td></tr> </table>



A number of types of homes are mentioned in Lifestyle. The purchase DC covers
the down payment, not the total cost of the home. (A character buying a home
does not have to worry about mortgage payments; they simply replace the hero’s
rent, which is already accounted for in the [Wealth](modern-d20-srd-wealth-index) system) The small house and condo are one- or two-bedroom homes,
probably with curbside parking. The large condo and medium house are three-
bedroom homes with garage or carport parking for one or two cars. The large
house is a four-bedroom home with a two-car garage, while the mansion is a
five- or six-bedroom home with an extra den, spacious rooms throughout, and a
three-car garage. All of these homes are of typical construction; luxury
appointments or avant garde design is available with a +2 increase to the
purchase DC.

Location dramatically affects a home’s value. The given purchase DC assumes a
typical suburban location. An undesirable location, such as a bad neighborhood
or a remote rural site, reduces the purchase DC by 2. A particularly good
location in an upscale neighborhood or city center increases the purchase DC
by 2.

### Entertainment

Purchase DCs are given for several entertainment options. They represent the
purchase of a single ticket. A pair of tickets can be purchased together;
doing so increases the purchase DC by 2.


<table> <tr> <th>Entertainment</th> <th> Purchase DC</th> </tr> <tr><td> Movie ticket</td><td> 3 </td></tr> <tr><td> Theater ticket</td><td> 7 </td></tr> <tr><td>Sporting event ticket</td><td> 7 </td></tr> </table>



### Meals

Several typical meal costs are provided. The cost of picking up the tab for
additional diners adds +2 per person to the purchase DC.


<table> <tr> <th>Meals</th> <th> Purchase DC</th> </tr> <tr><td> Fast food</td><td> 2 </td></tr> <tr><td> Family restaurant</td><td> 4 </td></tr> <tr><td> Upscale restaurant</td><td> 7 </td></tr> <tr><td> Fancy restaurant</td><td> 9 </td></tr> </table>



### Transportation

Airfare tickets are for a single passenger round trip. One-way tickets are
available, but only reduce the purchase DC by 2. Car rentals and lodging rates
are per day.


<table> <tr> <th>Transportation</th> <th>Purchase DC</th></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td colspan="2">Airfare</td></tr> <tr><td> Domestic, coach</td><td> 14 </td></tr> <tr><td> Domestic, first class</td><td> 17 </td></tr> <tr><td> International, coach</td><td> 18 </td></tr> <tr><td> International, first class</td><td> 22 </td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td colspan="2"> Car rental </td></tr> <tr><td> Economy car</td><td> 6 </td></tr> <tr><td> Mid-size or truck</td><td> 8 </td></tr> <tr><td>Luxury</td><td> 10 </td></tr> </table>



