---
publishDate: 2023-01-02T00:00:00Z
title: Weapons
excerpt: Handguns
tags:
  - markdown
  - conversion
  - Astro
---

[Modern d20 SRD](/#modernD20) > [Equipment](modern-d20-srd-equipment-index) > [Weapons](modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons) > Handguns

## Handguns


<table> <tr><th> Name</th><th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Damage</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Critical</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Damage Type</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Range Increment</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Rate of Fire</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Magazine</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Size</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Weight</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Purchase DC</a></th> <th> <a  href="modern-d20-srd-equipment-equipment-weapons">Restriction</a></th></tr> <tr><td> Beretta 92F (9mm autoloader)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 40 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 15 box</td><td> Small</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 16</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Beretta 93R (9mm machine pistol)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S,A</td><td> 20 box</td><td> Med</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 18</td><td> Res (+2) </td></tr> <tr><td> Colt Double Eagle (10mm autoloader)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 9 box</td><td> Small</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 16</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Colt M1911 (.45 autoloader)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 7 box</td><td> Small</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Colt Python<sup>1</sup> (.357 revolver)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 40 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 6 cyl.</td><td> Med</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 5</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Derringer (.45)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 10 ft.</td><td> Single</td><td> 2 int.</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 14</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Desert Eagle (.50AE autoloader)</td><td> 2d8</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 40 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 8 box</td><td> Med</td><td> 4 lb.</td><td> 18</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Glock 17<sup>1</sup> (9mm autoloader)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 17 box</td><td> Small</td><td> 2 lb.</td><td> 18</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Glock 20<sup>1</sup> (10mm autoloader)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 40 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 15 box</td><td> Small</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 18</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> MAC Ingram M10 (.45 machine pistol)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 40 ft.</td><td> S, A</td><td> 30 box</td><td> Med</td><td> 6 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> Res (+2) </td></tr> <tr><td> Pathfinder (.22 revolver)</td><td> 2d4</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 20 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 6 cyl.</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 14</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Ruger Service-Six (.38S revolver)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 6 cyl.</td><td> Small</td><td> 2 lb.</td><td> 14</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> S&amp;W; M29 (.44 magnum revolver)</td><td> 2d8</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 6 cyl.</td><td> Med</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> SITES M9 (9mm autoloader)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 8 box</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 2 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td> Skorpion (.32 machine pistol)</td><td> 2d4</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 40 ft.</td><td> S, A</td><td> 20 box</td><td> Med</td><td> 4 lb.</td><td> 17</td><td> Res (+2) </td></tr> <tr><td> TEC-9 (9mm machine pistol)</td><td> 2d6</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 40 ft.</td><td> S or A</td><td> 32 box</td><td> Med</td><td> 4 lb.</td><td> 14</td><td> Res (+2) </td></tr> <tr><td> Walther PPK (.32 autoloader)</td><td> 2d4</td><td> 20</td><td> Ballistic</td><td> 30 ft.</td><td> S</td><td> 7 box</td><td> Small</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> Lic (+1) </td></tr> <tr><td colspan="11" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> <sup>1</sup> This mastercraft weapon grants a +1 bonus on attack rolls.<br/> <sup>2</sup> This weapon does special damage. See the weapon description.<br/> <sup>3</sup> See the description of this weapon for special rules. </td></tr> </table>


A handgun is a personal firearm that can be used one-handed without penalty.
This includes all pistols and some submachine guns and shotguns. All handguns
require the [Personal Firearms Proficiency](modern-d20-srd-feats-personal-firearms-proficiency) feat. Using a handgun without this feat imposes a –4
penalty on attack rolls.

Handguns can be broken down into three smaller groups: autoloaders, revolvers,
and machine pistols.

Autoloaders (sometimes called “automatics”) feature removable box magazines,
and some models hold quite a lot of ammunition. They work by using the energy
of a shot fired to throw back a slide, eject the shot’s shell casing, and
scoop the next round into the chamber. They are more complex than revolvers,
but nevertheless have become increasingly popular in the modern age.

Revolvers are relatively simple firearms that store several rounds (usually
six) in a revolving cylinder. As the trigger is pulled, the cylinder revolves
to bring the next bullet in line with the barrel.

Machine pistols are automatic weapons small enough to be fired with one hand.
Some are autoloader pistols modified to fire a burst of bullets in a single
pull of the trigger, while others are modified submachine guns, cut down in
size and weight to allow one-handed use.

Ranged weapons that use box magazines come with one full magazine.

### Beretta 92F

The standard service pistol of the United States military and many American
law enforcement agencies.

### Beretta 93R

This close relative of the Beretta 92F looks like a large autoloader but can
fire on automatic. It sports a fold-down grip in front of the trigger guard,
an extendable steel shoulder stock that is attached to the butt of the pistol,
and an extended magazine.

This weapon features a three-round burst setting. When used with the [Burst Fire](modern-d20-srd-feats-burst-fire) feat, it fires only three bullets
instead of five and can be used with only three bullets in the weapon. This
setting does not grant the ability to make burst fire attacks without the
[Burst Fire](modern-d20-srd-feats-burst-fire) feat; if a character uses the
setting without the feat, he or she makes a normal attack, and the extra two
bullets are wasted.

### Colt Double Eagle

Based on the M1911 mechanism, this pistol is an updated civilian version that
fires a 10mm round.

### Colt M1911

This .45 semiautomatic pistol was used by the United States military for
decades until it was recently replaced by the Beretta 92F. Manufactured at
three locations in the United States alone, the M1911 can be found all over
the world, and is still in use in several other military forces.

### Colt Python

The Python has a well-deserved reputation for accuracy. Due to its high
quality of manufacture, the Colt Python is always considered a
[mastercraft](modern-d20-srd-equipment-mastercraft-objects) weapon. As such,
it grants a +1 bonus on [attack rolls](modern-d20-srd-combat-attack-roll).

### Derringer

This pistol breaks open at the breech like a double-barreled shotgun. The two-
shot weapon has one barrel atop the other and is barely 5 inches long, making
it easy to conceal.

### Desert Eagle

Manufactured by Israeli Military Industries, the Desert Eagle is the king of
large-frame, heavy-caliber autoloaders. The version on Table: Ranged Weapons
fires the massive .50 Action Express round. The Desert Eagle also comes in
.357 Magnum and .44 Magnum models.

### Glock 17

The Glock is typical of 9mm self-loading pistols carried by many police
officers and military personnel.

Due to its high quality of manufacture, the Glock 17 is always considered a
[mastercraft](modern-d20-srd-equipment-mastercraft-objects) weapon. As such,
it grants a +1 bonus on [attack rolls](modern-d20-srd-combat-attack-roll).

### Glock 20

This slightly larger version of the Glock 17 is chambered for the slightly
more powerful 10mm round.

Due to its high quality of manufacture, the Glock 20 is always considered a
[mastercraft](modern-d20-srd-equipment-mastercraft-objects) weapon. As such,
it grants a +1 bonus on [attack rolls](modern-d20-srd-combat-attack-roll).

### MAC Ingram M10

No longer in production, about 10,000 of these small submachine guns were made
and supplied to United States police forces, the U.S. Army, Cuba, and Peru.
Light pressure on the trigger produces single shots, while increased pressure
brings automatic fire.

The M10 accepts a suppressor without modification.

### Pathfinder

The Pathfinder is a high-quality weapon used as a concealed backup weapon by
police officers or for personal defense. The Pathfinder is typical of a number
of short-barreled (3 inches) small-caliber revolvers.

### Ruger Service-Six

This revolver, designed specifically for police use, fires the .38 Special
round. It was very popular with United States police forces prior to the
increasing use of autoloaders in recent decades, and is still in service with
many police forces today.

### S&W; M29

The Smith & Wesson Model 29 .44 Magnum revolver fires one of the most powerful
pistol cartridges in the world. The M29 is known for its deafening sound,
bright muzzle flash, and powerful recoil.

### SITES M9 Resolver

The compact SITES weapon is very narrow, making it easy to conceal.

### Skorpion

The CZ61 Skorpion is a Czech machine pistol seen increasingly in the West
since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Originally intended for military
vehicle crews who don’t have space for an unwieldy longarm, it was widely
distributed to Communist countries and in central Africa, and can now be found
anywhere in the world.

### TEC-9

The Intratec TEC-9 is an inexpensive machine pistol popular with criminals
because it can be modified ([Repair](modern-d20-srd-skills-repair)
[check](modern-d20-srd-skills-skill-basics-php#skill-check-index) DC 15) to
fire on automatic. The pistol only works on semiautomatic fire or, if
modified, only on automatic. Once modified to fire on automatic, the TEC-9
cannot be changed back to semiautomatic.

### Walther PPK

The PPK is a small, simple, and reliable autoloader with a design that dates
back to the 1930s. It remains in widespread service among European police,
military, and government agencies.

