---
title: Civilian Cars
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Civilian automobiles of the future are required by law to carry remote
shutdown systems in the event the vehicle is involved in a high-speed chase.
Cars can be equipped with options like heated side mirrors, power seats, and
sunroofs; each of these added features increases the vehicle’s purchase DC by
1.

Unless otherwise noted, civilian cars provide three-quarters cover for their
occupants. The operative skill for cars is Drive.


<table> <tr><th colspan="13">Table: Civilian Cars</th></tr> <tr><th>Name</th><th>Crew</th><th>Pass</th><th>Cargo</th><th>Init</th><th>Maneuver</th><th>Top Speed</th><th>Defense</th><th>Hard</th><th>Hit Points</th><th>Size</th><th>Purchase DC</th><th>Restriction</th></tr> <tr><th colspan="13" style="text-align: left">Progress Level 6: Fusion Age</th></tr> <tr><td>AutoMac taxi</td><td>0</td><td>6</td><td>L</td><td>–3</td><td>–2</td><td>175 (17)</td><td>8</td><td>5</td><td>34</td><td>H</td><td>31</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Kirsch Sunflower</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>S</td><td>–4</td><td>–2</td><td>160 (16)</td><td>9</td><td>5</td><td>25</td><td>L</td><td>27</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><td>Nakazawa Delta-9</td><td>1</td><td>4</td><td>L</td><td>–2</td><td>–1</td><td>245 (24)</td><td>8</td><td>5</td><td>34</td><td>H</td><td>31</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>SKG Lamplighter</td><td>1</td><td>4</td><td>M</td><td>–1</td><td>–1</td><td>210 (21)</td><td>8</td><td>5</td><td>32</td><td>H</td><td>28</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><th colspan="13" style="text-align: left">Progress Level 7: Gravity Age</th></tr> <tr><td>Bendel Motors Spirit</td><td>1</td><td>4</td><td>M</td><td>–2</td><td>+0</td><td>290 (29)</td><td>8</td><td>5</td><td>36</td><td>H</td><td>29</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Stradtler Hlidskjalf</td><td>1</td><td>4</td><td>L</td><td>–1</td><td>+1</td><td>255 (25)</td><td>8</td><td>5</td><td>35</td><td>H</td><td>36</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr><td>TM Willow</td><td>1</td><td>4</td><td>M</td><td>–2</td><td>–2</td><td>205 (20)</td><td>8</td><td>5</td><td>35</td><td>H</td><td>28</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><th colspan="13" style="text-align: left">Progress Level 8: Energy Age</th></tr> <tr><td>SKG Metropolitan</td><td>1</td><td>7</td><td>L</td><td>–2</td><td>–2</td><td>215 (21)</td><td>6</td><td>6</td><td>41</td><td>G</td><td>42</td><td>Lic (+1)</td></tr> </table>



### Automac Taxi (PL 6)

The AutoMac is a computer-driven taxi equipped with a driver autocomp (see
Vehicle Gear). It features two facing bench seats with room for six
passengers, and a small view screen and speaker that hang down from the
ceiling. The friendly voice of “Mac” requests destination information as well
as displaying the question on the view screen. The computer calculates the
fare and pre-charges the passenger. In case of emergency, a manual stop button
mounted in the middle of the speaker allows passengers to safely halt the
vehicle. Although there are no manual controls, the computer is equipped with
an access jack behind the front seat. A notebook computer or PDA with the
appropriate interface program can be plugged into this jack to override the
computer and allow an occupant to manually control the vehicle with a
successful Computer Use check (DC 20).

The AutoMac taxi is 2 squares wide and 3 squares long. Its drivercomp has a
Drive skill modifier of +8.

### Kirsch Sunflower (PL 6)

The Kirsch Sunflower is a solar-electrical economy coupe and its performance
is abysmal in comparison to other cars. It is 2 squares wide and 3 squares
long.

### Nakazawa Delta-9 (PL 6)

The Delta-9 from Nakazawa is a mid-size family wagon with a hatchback rear
door and plenty of cargo space. It uses the popular hybrid gas/electrical
engine developed in PL 5. It is 2 squares wide and 3 squares long.

### SKG Lamplighter (PL 6)

The Lamplighter four-door economy sedan offers comfort and performance for a
reasonable price. Slower than most civilian automobiles, the Lamplighter
offers all the usual luxuries included in the base price—keeping the cost down
by selling budget components, rather than the high-end electronics usually
installed. The Lamplighter is 2 squares wide and 3 squares long.

### Bendel Motors Spirit (PL 7)

The Bendel Motors Spirit is a comfortable, four-door, midsize sedan with a
powerful minireactor engine. It is 2 squares wide and 3 squares long.

### Stradtler Hlidskjalf (PL 7)

The Hlidskjalf sedan is widely recognized as the finest four-door luxury sedan
in production during its age. The Hlidskjalf is 2 squares wide and 3 squares
long.

### TM Willow (PL 7)

This mid-size, two-door sedan from Toner Motors is a common car model. It has
improved air filters to keep out the kind of dust found in the environments of
other planets. They are less popular on Earth, except when they are adapted to
desert driving. The Willow is 2 squares wide and 3 squares long.

### SKG Metropolitan (PL 8)

The Metropolitan is the ultimate in chauffeured luxury. Powered by a particle
reactor, it is loaded with every available luxury feature. A partition divides
the driver’s seat from the rest of the vehicle. The solid construction lends
the Metropolitan a slightly higher hardness than other civilian vehicles, and
armored versions with hardness 10 are available (increase the vehicle’s
purchase DC by +1). The Metropolitan provides three-quarters cover for its
occupants. It is 2 squares wide and 5 squares long.

