---
title: Metamagic Feats
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
As a spellcaster’s knowledge of magic grows, he or she can learn to cast
spells in ways slightly different from how the spells were originally designed
or learned. For example, a spellcaster can learn to cast a spell without
certain components, cast a spell for greater effect, or even cast a spell with
nothing but a moment’s thought. Altering the casting and effect of a spell is
accomplished using metamagic feats.

Spells improved with metamagic feats use up higher-level spell slots, as noted
in Table: Metamagic Spell Level Adjustments.

Metamagic feats cannot be used for all spells. See the specific feat
descriptions for the spells that a particular feat can’t modify.


<table> <tr><th colspan="2">Table: Metamagic Spell Level Adjustments</th></tr> <tr><td>Empower Spell</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Enlarge Spell</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>Eschew Materials</td><td>None</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Extend Spell</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>Heighten Spell</td><td>Special (see text)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Nonlethal Spell</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>Reach Spell</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Sacred Spell</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>Shadowbane Spell</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Silent Spell</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>Still Spell</td><td>+1</td></tr> </table>



### Preparing and Casting Metamagic Spells

Some advanced classes must prepare their spells in advance. During
preparation, members of these classes decide which spells to prepare with
metamagic feats, remembering that any spell improved by a metamagic feat takes
up a higher-level spell slot than normal.

Mystics cast spells at will from a limited list, as opposed to preparing them
in advance. They can decide when they cast their spells whether to use
metamagic feats to improve them.

As with other spellcasters, the improved spell uses up a higher-level spell
slot. Because the Mystic has not prepared the spell in a metamagic form in
advance, he must do so on the spot. The Mystic, therefore, must take more time
to cast a metamagic spell (one improved by a metamagic feat) than a regular
spell. If its normal casting time is an attack action, casting a metamagic
spell is a full-round action for the Mystic. For spells with a longer casting
time, it takes an extra full-round action to cast the spell.

Acolytes spontaneously casting cure or inflict spells can cast metamagic
versions of them. Casting an attack action metamagic spell spontaneously is a
full-round action, and spells with longer casting times take an extra full-
round action to cast.

Incantations: An incantation cannot be the subject of a metamagic feat.

### Effects of Metamagic Feats

In all ways, a metamagic spell operates at its original spell level even
though it is prepared and cast as a higher-level spell. Saving throw
modifications are not changed (unless stated otherwise in the feat
description). The modifications made by these feats only apply to spells cast
directly by the feat user. A spellcaster can’t use a metamagic feat to alter a
spell cast from a wand, scroll, or other device.

### Maximize Spell and Quicken Spell Abilities

Some advanced classes have special class abilities that work like metamagic
feats. For example, the Maximize Spell ability of the Mage and the Quicken
Spell ability of the Techno Mage function as metamagic feats with regard to
how they interact with other metamagic feats.

### Metamagic Magic Items

A character with the Brew Potion, Scribe Scroll, or Craft Wand class ability
can store a metamagic spell in a potion, scroll, or wand, respectively. Level
limits for potions and wands apply to the spell’s higher metamagic level. A
character doesn’t need the metamagic feat to activate an item storing a
metamagic spell.

### Multiple Metamagic Feats on a Spell

A spellcaster can use multiple metamagic feats on a single spell. Changes to
its level are cumulative.

### Counterspelling Metamagic Spells

A spell enhanced by a metamagic feat does not affect its vulnerability to
counterspelling or its ability to counterspell another spell.

