---
title: Ammunition
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
This section covers unique and exotic ammunition that a hero might use during
an adventure.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="3"> Table: Ammunition </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Ammunition Type </th> <th> Purchase DC Modifier </th> <th> Restriction </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Armor Piercing </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Beanbag </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Birdshot </td> <td> –1 </td> <td> Lic (+1) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Flechette </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Mil (+3) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Frangible </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> High Explosive </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> Mil (+3) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Rubber Round </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Silver </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Subsonic </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Mil (+3) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Tracer </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Mil (+3) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Tranquilizer </td> <td> 7* </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> White Phosphorous (WP) </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> Mil (+3) </td> </tr> <tr> <td colspan="3" style="font-size: .8em; text-align: left"> *This is the regular purchase DC, not modifier. </td> </tr> </table>

 **Armor Piercing**

Armor-piercing ammunition reduces the effectiveness of armor. When fired at an
opponent wearing any type of armor, the attack receives a +2 bonus. It has no
benefit against targets that are not wearing armor.

**Beanbag**

Riot police use this type of ammunition for crowd control. Loads are available
for shotguns and grenade launchers only. It deals the same amount of damage as
a normal load, but the damage dealt is nonlethal.

**Birdshot**

This is a lighter shotgun ammunition. It reduces the damage dealt by a shotgun
by 1 die.

**Flechette**

Flechette rounds fire bundles of razor-sharp, fin-stabilized tungsten darts. A
weapon that fires this ammunition improves its critical threat range by one,
but takes a –1 penalty on attack rolls.

**Frangible**

This ammunition scatters through a target rather than punching through and
hitting something else. It increases the damage dealt to unarmored targets by
+1. This bonus is negated if the target is wearing any sort of armor or has a
natural armor bonus of +2 or more.

**High Explosive**

High explosive ammunition is used mostly in grenade launchers and occasionally
shotguns, but can be found for other weapons. It is very expensive and
difficult to come by. High explosive ammunition deals 1 extra die of damage of
the appropriate type for the weapon.

**Rubber Rounds**

Rubber rounds exist for all types of handguns and longarms. Rubber ammunition
deals nonlethal damage.

**Silver**

Silver ammunition is useful for dealing with some types of Shadow creatures.
Silvered ammunition deals lethal damage to regular targets and bypasses the
damage reduction of any creature that is vulnerable to silver. It is never
mass-produced and must be made by hand, as reflected by its high cost. Because
silvered ammunition must be manufactured by hand, it is not licensed. It
requires a Craft (mechanical) check (DC 12) to manufacture a single silver
bullet.

**Subsonic**

Assassins and snipers use subsonic ammunition; it is rarely found outside
those circles. Its primary use is to reduce the noise of a shot, making it
more difficult to spot the shooter after the gun is fired. Subsonic ammunition
reduces damage dealt by –2 points, but the DC to Listen checks to hear the
gunshot is increased by +10. Subsonic ammunition decreases the range increment
by 20 feet. It is available for handguns and longarms, except shotguns.

**Tracer**

These phosphorous-coated rounds aid the shooter of an automatic weapon in
leading bullets to a target, but makes them easier to spot in turn. Tracer
ammunition provides a +1 bonus to attack rolls made with a weapon when fired
on autofire only. Opponents gain a +5 circumstance bonus on Spot checks when
trying to find someone firing tracer ammunition.

**Tranquilizer**

This ammunition is actually a large dart with a reservoir that is used to
deliver a tranquilizer (or poison) to the target. It is only available for air
rifles and pistols. For more information on poisons, see the Craft (chemical)
skill.

**White Phosphorous (WP)**

White phosphorous-tipped rounds can inflict terrible burns on a target. These
rounds go off if they strike anything between the shooter and the target. Any
target damaged by a “Willie P” shot takes an additional 1d6 points of fire
damage and risks catching on fire.

