---
title: General Equipment
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Equipment ](/arcana.d20.srd/equipment) > General Equipment

##  General Equipment

Many of the items in this section are battery operated. Any device that uses
batteries comes with them. As a general rule, ignore battery life—assume
characters are smart enough to recharge or replace their batteries between
adventures, and that the batteries last as long as needed during adventures.
If battery life is important in your game, roll 1d20 every time a battery-
operated item is used. On a result of 1, the battery charge runs out and the
item is useless. New batteries have a purchase DC of 2.

General equipment is described through a number of stats (see Table: General
Equipment).

Weight: This column gives the item’s weight.

Purchase DC: This is the purchase DC to buy the item.

Restriction: The restriction rating for the item.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="4"> Table: General Equipment </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Item </th> <th> Weight </th> <th> Purchase DC </th> <th> Restriction </th> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Clothing </th> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Clothing outfit </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Business </td> <td> 3 lb. </td> <td> 12 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Double-sided </td> <td> * </td> <td> +1* </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Stealth </td> <td> 2 lb. </td> <td> 9 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Surveillance Gear </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Bug sweeper </td> <td> 4.5 lb. </td> <td> 21 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Fiber optic camera </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3-foot cable w/monitor </td> <td> 3.5 lb. </td> <td> 17 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> 6-foot cable w/monitor </td> <td> 4.5 lb. </td> <td> 18 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9-foot cable w/monitor </td> <td> 5.5 lb. </td> <td> 19 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Microphone </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Contact </td> <td> 1 lb. </td> <td> 12 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Laser </td> <td> 3.5 lb. </td> <td> 18 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Parabolic </td> <td> 4.5 lb. </td> <td> 14 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Pick-up </td> <td> .5 lb. </td> <td> 12 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Shotgun </td> <td> 3.5 lb. </td> <td> 14 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Microtransmitter </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Average quality </td> <td> — </td> <td> 11 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Good quality </td> <td> — </td> <td> 12 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Amazing quality </td> <td> — </td> <td> 14 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Police scanner </td> <td> 2 lb. </td> <td> 11 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Video shades </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Black and white </td> <td> — </td> <td> 23 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Color </td> <td> — </td> <td> 24 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Professional Equipment </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Breaking and entering kit </td> <td> 50 lb </td> <td> 20 </td> <td> Ill (+4) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Capture kit </td> <td> 57 lb. </td> <td> 21 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Chemistry kit </td> <td> 15 lb. </td> <td> 13 </td> <td> Licensed </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Concertina wire (20 ft.) </td> <td> 15 lb. </td> <td> 11 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Fiend hunter’s kit </td> <td> 40 lb. </td> <td> 21 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Forced entry kit </td> <td> 135 lb. </td> <td> 21 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Generator, portable </td> <td> 125 lb. </td> <td> 19 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Glasscutter, circular </td> <td> 5 lb. </td> <td> 13 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Headset, microphone </td> <td> — </td> <td> 13 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Headset w/light </td> <td> — </td> <td> 14 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Headset w/camera </td> <td> 1 lb. </td> <td> 16 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Hydraulic compressor </td> <td> 50 lb. </td> <td> 13 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Holy water (flask) </td> <td> 1 lb. </td> <td> 15 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Jaws of life </td> <td> 40 lb. </td> <td> 18 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Liquid metal embrittlement sprayer </td> <td> 50 lb. </td> <td> 18 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Marbles, bag of </td> <td> .5 lb. </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Ram, portable </td> <td> 35 lb. </td> <td> 12 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Road flare (3) </td> <td> 1.5 lb. </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Vampire slayer’s kit </td> <td> 20 lb. </td> <td> 16 </td> <td> Res (+2) </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Winch, portable </td> <td> 15 lb. </td> <td> 16 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th colspan="4" style="text-align: left"> Sports Equipment </th> </tr> <tr> <td> In-line skates </td> <td> 5 lb. </td> <td> 11 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Skateboard </td> <td> 3 lb. </td> <td> 7 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Skis and poles </td> <td> 10 lb. </td> <td> 19 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded2"> <td> Snowboard </td> <td> 8 lb. </td> <td> 16 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <td colspan="4" style="text-align: left; font-size: .8em"> *See item description for more information. </td> </tr> </table>


###  Clothing

Here are some additional outfits that heroes might wear during their
adventures.

**Stealth**

Worn by anyone who wants to go someplace without being seen. Includes long-
sleeved shirt, cargo pants, tabi shoes, and ski mask. All these items are
tight-fitting and matte black.

**Double-sided**

Any type of clothing can be made double-sided, allowing quick-change artists
to switch outfits by turning their clothes inside out. It takes one minute to
swap clothing to the other side and grants a +2 equipment bonus on Disguise
checks. Double-sided clothing adds +1 to the purchase DC of an outfit, but
does not change the weight.

###  Surveillance Equipment

Keeping an eye on suspects or tracking the moves of potential enemies is a
crucial part of the modern adventurer’s job.

**Bug Sweeper**

A bug sweeper is a handheld device that measures radio frequency signals and
looks for “suspicious” wavelengths. It gives a +5 equipment bonus on Search
checks when trying to find microtransmitters.

**Fiber Optic Camera**

This tiny camera mounted on a flexible cable allows a person to peer into
places without being spotted or getting in harm’s way (such as slipping it
under a door or through an air vent). It includes a small viewer and can be
connected to a video camera or monitor. It requires a Computer Use check (DC
10) to use properly.

**Microphone, Contact**

Originally designed for bomb-disposal applications, contact mikes allow the
operator to hear through walls, packages, doors, and so on, merely by placing
the suction-cup microphone in contact with the surface in question. It can
listen through 6 inches of material.

**Microphone, Laser**

Trying to hear someone from a distance is fine, unless there is something in
the way. A laser microphone bypasses this by measuring the vibrations on a
glass surface (such as a window). The listener can hear past a glass window
and 10 feet around that area. It does not work on any other type of surface. A
laser microphone has a range of 100 feet.

**Microphone, Parabolic**

The specific function of this microphone is to pick up quiet sounds at a
distance. Otherwise, it functions just like an ordinary pickup microphone. It
has a range of 50 feet.

**Microphone, Pick Up**

The standard microphone, designed to pick up sounds within a few meters. A
standard pick up microphone can hear all sounds within 10 feet, granting a +5
equipment bonus on Listen checks.

**Microphone, Shotgun**

A shotgun mike can pick up sounds up to 100 feet away, but must be pointed
directly at the target. It has a very narrow corridor, roughly three feet
across, and cannot pick up anything beyond that range. A shotgun mike gives a
+5 equipment bonus on Listen checks.

**Microtransmitter**

Commonly called a “bug,” this tiny microphone is the size of a nickel and
sends a signal to a waiting transmitter. Average quality bugs have a range of
100 feet, good quality bugs have a range of 300 feet, and amazing quality bugs
can reach one mile. For +1 to the purchase DC, microtransmitters can be built
into pens, calculators, clocks, and other mundane items. Finding a
microtransmitter requires a Search check opposed by the Hide skill of the
person who planted it. A good quality microtransmitter grants a +2 equipment
bonus on Hide checks. An amazing quality microtransmitter provides a +4
equipment bonus on Hide checks.

**Police Scanner**

A police scanner allows a person to listen to emergency broadcast
frequencies—fire, medical, animal control, and so forth. It has a range of 10
miles.

**Video Shades**

Incorporating a tiny pinhole camera and a microtransmitter, these otherwise
ordinary sunglasses see whatever the wearer sees. There are two models—one
transmits in black and white and the other in color. They include a
microtransmitter with a range of 150 feet.

###  Professional Equipment

This category covers a wide variety of specialized equipment used by
professionals in adventure-related fields. Some of these are kits that contain
a variety of items bundled in one package.

**Breaking and Entering Kit**

This kit is designed for stealthy individuals who try to get into someplace
without being seen and while making minimal noise. It includes a contractor
field bag (black), circular glasscutter, boltcutters, car opening kit, contact
microphone, penlight, lockpick set, lock release gun, microphone headset
(walkie-talkie bought separately), and a multipurpose tool.

**Capture Kit**

This kit is designed for neutralizing and capturing a live, dangerous target.
Additional methods of incarceration are up to the hero—cages, lead-lined
boxes, etc. The capture kit includes the following items: Mossberg shotgun
with 12 beanbag rounds, air rifle, 6 tranquilizer darts (poison or
tranquilizers must be bought separately), 2 sets of handcuffs, 25 zip-ties,
ketch-all pole, taser, duct tape, net launcher, and an additional net pack.

**Concertina Wire**

So named because it folds up like a squeezebox, concertina wire is the latest
generation of barbed wire. It comes in 20-foot-long rolls that are stretch
across the surface or fence to be protected. For each 2-foot section that a
person tries to cross, he or she must make a Reflex save (DC 15) or take 1d6
points of damage (save for half). Concertina wire has hardness 2, 5 hp, and
can only be damaged by slashing weapons or cut with a tool like boltcutters.

**Fiend Hunter’s Kit**

Considered by some to be the most dangerous of prey, fiends require extreme
force and quick thinking to bring down. This kit contains a Beretta M3P
shotgun, 10 high-explosive rounds, 10 white phosphorous rounds, 2 white
phosphorous grenades, 2 fragmentation grenades, night vision goggles, holy
symbols (various faiths), and 5 vials of holy water, all contained in a duffle
bag.

**Generator, Portable**

A single cylinder, gas-powered generator on wheels that can produce enough
electricity to power a house for eight hours. It requires two gallons of
gasoline to operate and is noisy.

**Glasscutter, Circular**

This special device allows a person to cut through glass panes without
cracking or shattering them in the process. It fits onto the glass with a
suction cup and has a rotating arm that cuts a hole from 3 to 12 inches in
diameter. Once the hole is cut, the suction cup is tugged, pulling out the
circle of glass. The user makes a Dexterity check (DC 10) to create a hole
without shattering the glass. If the check fails, the glass shatters with a
loud crash.

**Hydraulic Compressor**

A hydraulic compressor is used to provide power to tools like the jaws of
life, jackhammers, pumps, and the like. Without a compressor, many of these
items will not operate.

**Headset, Microphone**

This is a small, unobtrusive microphone and earphone headset, often hooked up
to a professional walkie-talkie or cell phone (which must be purchased
separately). It allows a person to keep their hands free while engaging in
conversation. Better quality versions also include a small, powerful
flashlight attachment or tiny video camera.

**Holy Water**

Holy water damages undead and evil outsiders almost as if it were acid.
Typically, a flask of holy water deals 2d4 points of damage to an undead
creature or an evil outsider on a direct hit, or 1 point of damage if it
splashes such a creature. Also, holy water is considered blessed, which means
it has special effects on certain creatures. A flask of holy water can be
thrown as a grenadelike weapon. A flask breaks if thrown against the body of a
corporeal creature, but against an incorporeal creature, the flask must be
opened and the holy water poured out onto it. Thus, you can only douse an
incorporeal creature with holy water if you are adjacent to it. Doing so is a
ranged touch attack that does not provoke an attack of opportunity.

**Jaws of Life**

This rescue tool is used by firefighters and aid personnel to pry open the
mangled doors of auto accidents. It requires a hydraulic compressor to work,
but gives a +10 equipment bonus on Strength checks to open doors, bust through
gates, and the like.

**Liquid Metal Embrittlement Sprayer**

Although superficially resembling a flamethrower, this tool is used to spray a
special liquid that makes metal brittle. It has a range of 10 feet and can
coat a 5-foot square of metal in one round. After 1d6 x 10 minutes, the liquid
reduces the hardness of the metal permanently by half (round down). The tank
holds enough liquid to coat 50 square feet of surface. The liquid has no
effect on any other type of substance.

**Ram, Portable**

This modern ram is the perfect tool for battering down doors. Not only does it
give you a +4 circumstance bonus on your Strength check to break open a door,
but it allows a second person to help you without having to make an aid
another check, adding another +2 bonus to your check.

**Road Flare**

Road flares are small chemical sticks that produce a brilliant red light. They
are lit by striking the cap against the stick. A road flare lasts for an hour
before being completely consumed and fills a 5-foot square with flickering red
light. Anyone struck with a road flare takes 1d6 points of fire damage. Road
flares are sold in packs of three.

**Forced Entry Kit**

Sometimes it’s necessary to enter an area that someone really doesn’t want you
to get into. This kit is not subtle, but effective, relying on battering down
doors and blasting holes through walls. Police and military personnel are most
likely to use this kit. The forced entry kit contains the following items:
Mossberg shotgun with integrated flashlight, 10 high-explosive shells, 5
beanbag rounds, boltcutters, liquid metal embrittlement sprayer, portable ram,
sledgehammer (equivalent to warhammer), and chainsaw.

**Marbles, Bag of**

About two dozen assorted glass spheres in a pouch. Commonly used as a toy, but
also useful for checking slopes (just set one down and see which way it rolls)
or as a nondamaging alternative to caltrops, one bag covers a 5-foot square.
Creatures moving through or fighting in the area must make a Balance check (DC
15) every round they remain within that area or fall prone.

**Vampire Slayer’s Kit**

This kit is specially tailored for dealing with undead bloodsuckers. Because
not all vampires are vulnerable to the same things the kit covers a variety of
possiblities. The kit contains the following items: 5 wooden stakes, Mossberg
shotgun, 5 white phosphorous shotgun shells, silver holy symbols (various
faiths), hand crossbow, 5 bolts with wooden tips, small metal mirror, garlic
clove necklace. All this is packaged in an aluminum travel case.

**Winch, Portable**

This small, portable electrical winch and cable has a solid hook on the end.
If properly bolted down (such as being mounted to the front of a vehicle), it
has enough strength to pull a car out of a ditch or a small tree out of the
ground (an equivalent Strength 30). The cable is 150 feet long and has
hardness 4 and 5 hp. The cable can only be damaged with slashing weapons or a
boltcutter.

###  Sports Equipment

Extreme sports and extreme danger go hand-in-hand. The following items are
sports and recreational equipment that heroes might use in their adventures.

**In-Line Skates**

In-line skates allow a character to increase his or her speed by an additional
20 feet per round on level ground and an additional 30 feet per round on a
downward slope. The character can only take attack or move actions while using
in-line skates (no full-round actions except a double move). If the character
attempts any fancy maneuvers, he must make a Balance check (DC 10); the DC can
increase based on how difficult the GM determines the maneuver to be. A failed
check means that he falls, taking damage as if he fell 10 feet vertically for
every 20 feet of movement.

**Skateboard**

The skateboard has become a ubiquitous part of city living. On level ground, a
skateboard increases a person’s speed by an additional 10 feet per round. On a
downward slope, this increases by an additional 20 feet per round. The
character can only take attack or move actions while riding a skateboard. Any
time he does anything fancy, the rider must make a Balance check (DC 15). The
DC can increase based on how difficult a maneuver he is attempting. A failed
check means that he falls, taking damage as if he fell 10 feet vertically for
every 20 feet of movement.

**Skis and Snowboards**

For game purposes, skis and snowboards operate the same way. When moving
downhill on snow or icy terrain, the character’s speed increases by an
additional 30 feet per move action (20 feet when using cross-country skis on
more-or-less level terrain). A person can only move at half speed while using
skis up a slope. Any time the character performs some sort of fancy maneuver,
he must make a Balance check (DC 15). The DC can increase based on how
difficult a maneuver he is attempting. A failed check means that he falls,
taking damage as if he fell 10 feet vertically for every 20 feet of movement.
If the character is skiing on fresh snow, this damage is reduced by one die.
Ski poles can be used as impromptu weapons.

