---
title: Archmage
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The fastest path into this prestige class is from the Mage and Techno Mage
advanced classes, though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become an Archmage, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Spellcraft 12 ranks, Knowledge (arcane lore) 12 ranks, Concentration
12 ranks.

Special: Ability to cast arcane spells.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Archmage prestige class.

**Hit Die**

Archmages gain 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution modifier
applies.

**Action Points**

Archmage gain a number of action points equal to 7 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Archmage’s class skills are as follows: Computer Use (Int), Concentration
(Con), Craft (chemical, electronic, mechanical, pharmaceutical) (Int),
Decipher Script (Int), Demolitions (Int), Disable Device (Int), Investigate
(Int), Knowledge (arcane lore, art, behavioral sciences, business, civics,
current events, earth and life sciences, history, physical sciences, popular
culture, streetwise, technology, theology and philosophy) (Int), Profession
(Wis), Read/Write Language (none), Repair (Int), Research (Int), Speak
Language (none), Spellcraft (Int).

Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Archmage </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Total spellcasting </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Increased spells/day </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Gifted incantations </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Increased spells/day </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Granted incantations </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> </table>



###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Archmage prestige class.

**Total Spellcasting**

Count all character caster levels when determining the Archmage’s casting
level for arcane spells.

**Increased Spells/Day**

At 2nd level, the Archmage increases the base number of arcane spells per day
by one half (round down). This increase occurs before modifications for high
intelligence or other alterations. At 4th level, the Archmage again increases
the number of arcane spells available per day, this time to a total of twice
what he would normally have. As before, this increase happens prior to any
modifications or alterations.

**Gifted Incantations**

At 3rd level, the Archmage can spend an action point on an incantation to gain
an additional +1d6 on all skill checks to complete the incantation.

**Granted Incantations**

At 5th level, failure during an Incantation holds no penalty for the Archmage.

