---
title: Artificer
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Prestige Classes ](/arcana.d20.srd/prestige.classes) > Artificer

##  Artificer

The fastest path into this prestige class is from the Mage and Techno Mage
advanced classes, though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become an Artificer, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Spellcraft 9 ranks, Knowledge (arcane lore) 9 ranks, and 9 ranks in
any one Craft skill. The Craft skill will affect the Artificer’s ability to
use different types of Craft Artifice abilities.

Other: Ability to cast 2nd-level arcane spells.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Artificer prestige class.

**Hit Die**

Artificers gain 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Artificer gain a number of action points equal to 7 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Artificer’s class skills are as follows: Computer Use (Int), Concentration
(Con), Craft (chemical, electronic, mechanical, pharmaceutical, or structural)
(Int), Decipher Script (Int), Disable Device (Int), Drive (Dex), Forgery
(Int), Knowledge (arcane lore, art, business, current events, earth and life
sciences, history, physical sciences, popular culture, technology, or theology
and philosophy) (Int), Profession (Wis), Read/Write Language (none), Repair
(Int), Research (Int), Search (Int), Speak Language (none).

Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Artificer </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Craft artifice </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Craft artifice, bonus feat </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Craft artifice </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Craft artifice, bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Craft artifice </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Artificer prestige class.

**Craft Artifice**

At each level of Artificer, choose one of the following item creation talents.
The Artificer must have ranks in the appropriate Craft skill to use the
talent. Note that for talents that are available to other arcane advanced
classes, the Artificer’s version is less expensive.

Craft Wand: With this talent, the Artificer can create wands, which carry
spells within themselves. The Artificer can create a wand of any spell of 4th
level or lower that he knows. Crafting a wand takes 12 hours x the spell’s
level. When the Artificer creates a wand, he sets the caster level. The caster
level must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and no higher than the
Artificer’s total class levels in all arcane spellcasting classes (Artificer,
Mage, Techno Mage). The caster level has an effect on the purchase DC of the
raw materials to craft the wand, the skill check to create the wand, the
experience point cost to craft the wand, and the DC of a saving throw (if
applicable) to resist the effect of the wand.

The purchase DC for the raw material that the Artificer requires to craft a
wand is 18 + the level of the spell stored in the wand + the wand’s caster
level.

The Artificer must also spend experience points to craft a wand. The XP cost
is equal to the spell level x the caster level x the purchase DC of the raw
materials.

Finally, the Artificer makes a Craft (mechanical) skill check. The DC for the
check is 10 + the spell level + the caster level of the spell stored in the
wand. If the check fails, the raw materials are used up but the XP are not
spent. The Artificer can try crafting the wand again as soon as he purchases
more raw materials.

When an Artificer creates a wand, he makes any choices that he would normally
make when casting the spell. A newly crafted wand has 50 charges.

Any wand that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost
also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the raw materials cost, the
Artificer must expend 50 copies of the material component or pay 50 times the
XP cost when creating the wand.

Improved Brew Potion: With this talent, the Artificer can create potions,
which carry spells within themselves. The Artificer can create a potion of any
spell of 3rd level or lower that he knows. The spell must target a character
or characters. Brewing a potion takes 24 hours. When the Artificer creates a
potion, he sets the caster level. The caster level must be sufficient to cast
the spell in question and no higher than the Artificer’s total class levels in
all arcane spellcasting classes (Artificer, Mage, Techno Mage). The caster
level has an effect on the purchase DC of the raw materials to brew the
potion, the skill check to create the potion, the experience point cost to
brew the potion, and the DC of a saving throw (if applicable) to resist the
effect of the potion. The purchase DC for the raw material that the Artificer
requires to brew a potion is 12 + the potion’s spell level + the potion’s
caster level. The Artificer must also spend experience points to brew a
potion. The XP cost is equal to the spell level x the caster level x the
purchase DC of the raw materials. Finally, the Artificer makes a Craft
(chemical) skill check. The DC for the check is 10 + the spell level + the
caster level of the potion. If the check fails, the raw materials are used up
but the XP are not spent. The Artificer can try brewing the potion again as
soon as he purchases more raw materials. When an Artificer creates a potion,
he makes any choices that he would normally make when casting the spell.
Whoever drinks the potion is the target of the spell. Any potion that stores a
spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a
commensurate cost. In addition to the raw materials cost, the Artificer must
expend the material component or pay the XP when creating the potion.

Improved Scribe Scroll: With this talent, the Artificer can create scrolls
from which he or another spellcaster can cast a scribed spell. You can create
a scroll of any spell you know. Scribing a scroll takes one day. The purchase
DC for the raw materials to scribe a scroll is 10 + the scroll’s spell level +
the scroll’s caster level.

The Artificer must also spend experience points to scribe a scroll. The XP
cost is equal to the spell level x the caster level x the purchase DC of the
raw materials.

Finally, the Artificer makes a Craft (writing) skill check. The DC for the
check is 10 + the spell level + the caster level of the scroll. If the check
fails, the raw materials are used up but the XP are not spent. The Artificer
can try scribing the scroll again as soon as he purchases more raw materials.

Any scroll that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost
also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the raw materials cost, the
Artificer must expend the material component or pay the XP when scribing the
scroll.

A scroll can be written on a sheet of paper or parchment, or it can be saved
as a file on a computer or PDA.

Improved Scribe Tattoo: With this talent, an Artificer can create tattoos on
his body or on someone else’s. Tattoos function similarly to scrolls, and are
created in the same way (see Scribe Scroll), except that the pertinent skill
is Craft (visual arts). Magic Mastercraft: With this talent, the Artificer can
create magical mastercraft items.

Each time the Artificer selects this Craft Artifice talent, he applies it to
either armor or weapons. From this point on, he can build magical mastercraft
items of that type. The Artificer uses his Craft (mechanical) and Craft
(chemical) to build weapons and armor and embue them with magical
enhancements. On average, it takes twice as long to build a magic mastercraft
item as it does an ordinary item of the same type. The cost to build a magic
mastercraft item is equal to the purchase DC for the components (see the
appropriate Craft skill description) + an additional amount based on the
magical enhancement bonus: +1 bonus, +5 to the purchase DC; +2 bonus, +10 to
the purchase DC; +3 bonus, +15 to the purchase DC. You can add the magic
mastercraft feature to an existing ordinary item by making the Wealth check
and then making the Craft check as though you were constructing the item from
scratch. The Artificer must also spend experience points to create a magic
mastercraft item. The XP cost is equal to the enhancement bonus x 10 x the
purchase DC of the components. The XP must be paid before making the Craft
checks. If the expenditure of these XP would drop the Artificer to below the
minimum needed for his current level, then the XP can’t be paid and the
mastercraft work can’t be done until the Artificer gains enough additional XP
to remain at his current level after the expenditure is made. Finally, the
Artificer makes a Craft (mechanical) skill check and a Craft (chemical) skill
check to complete the work. The DC for the Craft (mechanical) check is 20 +
the enhancement bonus for armor; 25 + the enhancement bonus for weapons. The
DC for the Craft (chemical) check is 25 + the enhancement bonus – the
Artificer’s class level.

**Bonus Feat**

At 2nd and 4th level, the Artificer gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat must be
selected from the following list, and the Artificer must meet all of the
prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Empower Spell, Enlarge Spell, Eschew Materials, Extend Spell, Heighten Spell,
Nonlethal Spell, Reach Spell, Sacred Spell, Shadowbane Spell.

