---
title: Ecclesiarch
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The fastest path into this prestige class is from the Acolyte and Mystic
advanced classes, though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become an Ecclesiarch, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Spellcraft 10 ranks, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) 10 ranks,
Concentration 8 ranks.

Special: Ability to cast divine spells, ability to turn a particular creature
type.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Ecclesiarch prestige class.

**Hit Die**

Ecclesiarches gain 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Ecclesiarches gain a number of action points equal to 7 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Ecclesiarch’s class skills are as follows: Concentration (Con), Craft
(chemical, electronic, visual art, writing) (Int), Decipher Script (Int),
Diplomacy (Cha), Gather Information (Cha), Investigate (Int), Knowledge
(arcane lore, art, behavioral sciences, current events, history, popular
culture, theology and philosophy), Listen (Wis), Perform (any), Profession
(Wis), Read/Write Language (none), Research (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak
Language (none), Spellcraft (Int), Survival (Wis), Treat Injury (Wis).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Ecclesiarch </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Total spellcasting </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Increased spells/day </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Total turning </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Increased spells/day </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Innovative turning </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> </table>



###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Ecclesiarch prestige class.

**Total Spellcasting**

Count all character levels when determining the Ecclesiarch’s casting level
for divine spells.

**Increased Spells/Day**

At 2nd level, the Ecclesiarch increases the base number of divine spells he
may cast per day by one-half (round down). This increase occurs before
modifications for high Wisdom or other alterations. At 4th level, the
Ecclesiarch again increases the number of divine spells available per day,
this time to a total of twice what he would normally have. As before, this
increase happens prior to any modifications or alterations.

**Total Turning**

Count all character levels when determining the Ecclesiarch’s level for
attempts to turn, rebuke, or command creatures.

**Innovative Turning**

When the Ecclesiarch gains 5th level, and every time he gains a character
level above this, he may spend an action point to alter the creature type he
can turn, rebuke, or command. One Ecclesiarch may choose to affect fey, while
another may affect constructs, and a third may choose to affect dragons. The
new creature type replaces that of the previous one, and all limitations to
the previous power apply (if the character could not bolster the previous
creature type, he cannot bolster the new creature type). Certain types of
creatures have restrictions on how they may be affected. The types that may be
affected are:


<table> <tr> <td> Aberrations </td> <td> Humans * </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Animals </td> <td> Magical beasts** </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Constructs </td> <td> Monstrous humanoids* </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Dragons** </td> <td> Oozes </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Elementals </td> <td> Outsiders** </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Fey* </td> <td> Plants </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Giants* </td> <td> Undead </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Humanoids* </td> <td> Vermin </td> </tr> <tr> <td colspan="2" style="font-size: .8em; text-align: left"> <p> *This type of creature cannot be destroyed by turning, regardless of the success of the turning. <br/> **This type of creature cannot be destroyed by turning, and cannot be commanded. </p> </td> </tr> </table>



