---
title: Holy/Unholy Knight
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Prestige Classes ](/arcana.d20.srd/prestige.classes) > Holy/Unholy Knight

##  Holy/Unholy Knight

The fastest path into this prestige class is from the Strong and Fast hero
basic classes, in particular those which proceed through the Archaic
Weaponsmaster and Swashbuckler advanced classes.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become a Holy/Unholy Knight, a character must fulfill the
following criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +8.

Skills: Diplomacy 9 ranks, Gather Information 9 ranks, Knowledge (any one) 9
ranks.

Feats: Weapon Focus in a melee weapon.

Other: At the time that the character receives his first level in the
Holy/Unholy Knight prestige class, he must decide whether his faith leans
toward the positive (good) or negative (evil) energy of the universe. This
choice adds either the good or evil allegiance to the character, and
determines how the Holy/Unholy Knight uses certain aspects of his faith.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Holy/Unholy Knight prestige class.

**Hit Die**

Holy/Unholy Knights gain 1d10 hit points per level. The character’s
Constitution modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Holy/Unholy Knights gain a number of action points equal to 7 plus one-half
their character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Holy/Unholy Knight’s class skills are as follows: Climb (Str), Diplomacy
(Cha), Handle Animal (Cha),Intimidate (Cha), Jump (Str), Knowledge (arcane
lore, current events, history, popular culture, streetwise, tactics,
technology, theology and philosophy) (Int), Profession (Wis), Read/Write
Language (none), Ride (Dex), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak Language (none), Treat
Injury (Wis).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Holy/Unholy Knight </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Divine grace, divine spells </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Sense allegiance, divine spells </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Smite allegiance, divine spells </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Divine touch, divine spells </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Turn undead, divine spells </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> </table>



###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Holy/Unholy Knight prestige class.

**Divine Spells**

The Holy/Unholy Knight casts divine spells. Unless noted below, the
Holy/Unholy Knight’s ability functions identically to the Acolyte’s
spellcasting abilities. The Difficulty Class for a saving throw against the
Holy/Unholy Knight’s spell is 10 + the spell’s level + the Holy/Unholy
Knight’s Wisdom modifier.

The Holy/Unholy Knight doesn’t acquire spells from books, scrolls, or files,
nor does he prepare them through study. Instead, he meditates or prays for his
spells, receiving them through his own strength of faith or as divine
inspiration. The Holy/Unholy Knight must spend one hour each day in quiet
contemplation or supplication to regain his daily allotment of spells. Time
spent resting has no effect on the Holy/Unholy Knight’s spell preparation.

The Holy/Unholy Knight receives no benefit to number of spells due to higher
ability scores.


<table> <tr> <th> Knight Level </th> <th colspan="4"> —Spells per Day by Spell Level— </th> </tr> <tr> <th> </th> <th> 0 </th> <th> 1 </th> <th> 2 </th> <th> 3 </th> </tr> <tr> <th> 1 </th> <td> 2 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <th> 2 </th> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 3 </th> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <th> 4 </th> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 5 </th> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 1 </td> </tr> </table>

 **Divine Grace**

At 1st level, a Holy/Unholy Knight applies his Charisma modifier (if positive)
as a bonus on all saving throws.

**Sense Allegiance**

At 2nd level, The Holy/Unholy Knight cans sense the presence of characters,
creatures, and items of both his chosen allegiance, and his opposing
allegiance (the Holy Knight has “good” as a chosen allegiance, and “evil” as
an opposing allegiance, while the Unholy Knight has the reverse). The sense
allegiance ability extends in a 60-foot radius around the Knight, but may be
concentrated to a quarter circle emanating forward from the Knight. You can
pinpoint allegiance more finely with a successful Search check (DC 25).

**Smite Allegiance**

At 3rd level, the Holy/Unholy Knight gains the ability to smite characters,
creatures, or items of opposing allegiance with a single melee attack (the
Holy Knight has “evil” as an opposing allegiance, the Unholy Knight has “good”
as an opposing allegiance).

The Holy/Unholy Knight spends an action point and, in addition to the normal
benefit of the action point, gains a bonus to the attack equal to his Charisma
modifier (if positive) and deals 1 extra point of damage per total character
levels of the Holy/Unholy Knight.

Should the attack miss, the action point is expended. Similarly, the action
point is expended if the Holy/Unholy Knight uses it and strikes a target that
does not have an opposing allegiance. Smite allegiance is considered a
supernatural ability.

**Divine Touch**

At 4th level, the Holy/Unholy Knight gains the ability to channel divine
energy through his body and apply it directly to himself or another character.
With this ability the Knight can restore lost hit points with a single touch;
he may also choose to deal holy damage to a target with a simple a touch
attack. Each day the Holy/Unholy Knight may cure or deal a number of points of
damage equal to his Charisma bonus times his total character level. The Holy
Knight is not limited to curing wounds, nor is the Unholy Knight restricted to
inflicting them. It is possible to combine this ability with smite allegiance
to increase the amount of damage dealt by a touch attack. Massive damage rules
apply.

Use of this ability may be guided by the Holy/Unholy Knight’s allegiance, and
widespread abuse may cause the Holy/Unholy Knight to lose his chosen
allegiance.

**Turn Undead**

At 5th level, the Holy/Unholy Knight can turn undead in the same manner as the
Acolyte. The Holy Knight affects undead in the same manner as an Acolyte with
good allegiance (turning or destroying undead), while the Unholy Knight
affects undead in the same manner as an Acolyte with evil allegiance (rebuking
or commanding them). Count all Holy/Unholy Knight and Acolyte levels when
determining level for purposes of turning.

**Former Knights**

A Holy/Unholy Knight who loses his chosen allegiance, intentionally or not,
loses all Holy/Unholy Knight special abilities, including the ability to cast
divine spells. He may no longer progress in levels of Holy/Unholy Knight, but
can regain use of those abilities if he atones for his actions.

The Holy/Unholy Knight may switch sides entirely, taking its former opposed
allegiance. In this case, none of the Knight’s abilities are lost, and the
Knight merely changes his designation from Holy to Unholy (being a Fallen
Knight) or Unholy to Holy (being a Redeemed Knight). Such a switch of
allegiance is dramatic, such that the Fallen/Redeemed Knight automatically
kicks off the sense allegiance ability for Knights of its now-opposed
allegiance.

