---
title: Incantation-Based FX Items
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Making most magic items is a solitary endeavor, one in which the spellcaster
spends days (perhaps weeks) preparing an item to receive and permanently hold
a spell. It is possible to do the same thing with an incantation, but this
requires the help of secondary casters. This has a greater chance of failure
than infusing an item with a spell as the process requires both a Craft check
and the appropriate skill check for casting the incantation.

The person creating the item must have the appropriate item creation feat or
ability (such as the Mage’s Scribe Scroll ability), spend the appropriate
amount of time fashioning the item, succeed at the required Wealth check
(purchase DC = one-fifth of the item’s listed purchase DC), and spend the
appropriate amount of XP. Then the creator must succeed at the required Craft
check. If this check fails, the materials are used up but the XP are not
spent. If it succeeds, then the item has been successfully prepared to receive
the incantation.

The person who created the item must then serve as the primary caster in
performing the desired incantation. This occurs as written in the
incantation’s description. Failed incantations have all the usual
repercussions, plus the item has been tarnished and must be prepared before
another attempt can be made to infuse it with the incantation.

### Determining the Purchase DC

Calculating the purchase DCs for items created to hold incantations is
technically impossible, as incantations have neither caster levels nor spell
levels. For the purpose of calculating and item’s purchase DC, use the
following conversions.

Caster Level = 5 + total number of successful skill checks required to
complete the incantation (minimum 11).

Spell Level = total number of successful skill checks required to complete the
incantation.

