---
title: Magic Weapon Special Abilities
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Most magic weapons have a +1 or better enhancement bonus. They can also have
special abilities detailed here. A weapon with a special ability must have at
least a +1 enchantment bonus.

Acidic: Upon command, this weapon drips with acid. The acid does not harm the
hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus acid
damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy type
upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Bane: A bane weapon excels at attacking a specific kind of creature (such as
black dragons, ogres, or trolls). Against its designated foe, its effective
enhancement bonus is +2 better than its normal enhancement bonus and deals
+2d6 points of bonus damage against the foe.

Purchase DC Modifier: +2.

Brilliant (melee weapons only): A brilliant energy weapon has its significant
portion transformed into light, although this does not modify the item’s
weight. It gives off light as a torch (20-foot radius). A brilliant energy
weapon ignores nonliving matter. Equipment and enhancement Defense bonuses do
not count against it because the weapon passes through armor. (Dexterity,
deflection, dodge, natural armor, and other such bonuses still apply.) A
brilliant energy weapon cannot harm undead, constructs, and objects. Ranged
weapons cannot be enchanted with this ability.

Purchase DC Modifier: +3.

Chaotic: This weapon is infused with the power of chaos. It deals +2d6 points
of bonus damage against any creature with an allegiance to law. It bestows one
negative level on any creature with the law allegiance attempting to wield it.
The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears
when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in
actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is
wielded. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Dancing: A dancing weapon can be loosed (requiring a move action) to attack on
its own. It fights for 4 rounds using the base attack bonus of the one who
loosed it and then drops. It never leaves the side of the one who loosed it
(never straying more than 5 feet) and fights on even if that creature falls.
The wielder who loosed it can grasp it while it is attacking on its own as a
free action, but when so retrieved it can’t dance (attack on its own) again
for 4 rounds.

Purchase DC Modifier: +3.

Defending (melee weapons only): A defending weapon allows the wielder to
transfer some or all of the weapon’s enhancement bonus to his Defense as a
special bonus that stacks with all others. As a free action, the wielder
chooses how to allocate the weapon’s enhancement bonus at the start of his
turn before using the weapon, and the effect to Defense lasts until his next
turn. This ability cannot be placed on ranged weapons.

Purchase DC Modifier: +2.

Disruption (melee weapons only): This type of weapons deals +2d6 points of
damage to undead creatures.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Distance (ranged weapons only): A weapon of distance doubles its range
increment.

Purchase DC Modifier: +2.

Energy Blast: Energy blast weapons come in five types: acid blast, fiery
blast, icy blast, electrical blast, and concussive blast. A burst weapon
explodes with the appropriate energy type (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or
sonic/concussion) upon scoring a successful critical hit. The energy does not
harm the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d10 points of bonus
energy damage (of the requisite type) on a successful critical hit. If the
weapon’s critical multiplier is x3, add +2d10 points of bonus energy damage
instead, and if the multiplier is x4, add +3d10 points of bonus energy damage.
Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy upon their ammunition.

Any electrical device that is damaged by a shocking blast weapon has its
electronics scrambled. A successful Repair check (DC 10 + the damage dealt)
fixes the short.

Subjects dealt a critical hit by a concussive blast weapon must make a
Fortitude save (DC 14) or be deafened permanently.

Purchase DC Modifier: +2.

Flaming: Upon command, this weapon bursts into flame. The flame does not harm
the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus fire
damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy type
upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Frost: Upon command, this weapon is engulfed in a bluish nimbus of cold
energy. The cold does not harm the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons
deal +1d6 points of bonus cold damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so
enchanted bestow the energy type upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Ghost Touch (melee weapons only): A ghost touch weapon deals damage normally
against incorporeal creatures, regardless of its bonus. Further, it can be
picked up and moved by incorporeal creatures at any time.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Holy: This weapon is infused with holy power. It deals +2d6 points of bonus
damage against any creature with an allegiance to evil. It bestows one
negative level on any creature with the evil allegiance attempting to wield
it. The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears
when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in
actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is
wielded. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Keen (slashing weapons only): This enchantment doubles the threat range of a
weapon.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Lawful: This weapon is infused with the power of law. It deals +2d6 points of
bonus damage against any creature with an allegiance to chaos. It bestows one
negative level on any creature with the chaos allegiance attempting to wield
it. The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears
when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in
actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is
wielded. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Merciful: The weapon deals +1d6 points of damage, and all damage it deals is
nonlethal damage. On command, the weapon suppresses this ability until
commanded to resume it. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the merciful effect
upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Mighty Cleaving (melee weapons only): This weapon allows a wielder with the
Cleave feat to make one additional cleave attempt in a round. Only one extra
cleave attempt is allowed per round.

Purchase DC Modifier: +2.

Returning (thrown weapons only): A returning weapon returns to the thrower’s
hand at the beginning of his or her next turn.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Shocking: Upon command, this weapon crackles with lightning. The electricity
does not harm the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d6 points
of bonus electricity damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted
bestow the energy type upon their ammunition.

Any electrical device damaged by a shocking weapon has its electronics
scrambled. A successful Repair check (DC 10 + the damage dealt) fixes the
short.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Speed: A weapon of speed allows the wielder one single extra attack each round
at his highest bonus.

Purchase DC Modifier: +3.

Thundering: Upon command, this weapon resonates with sonic energy. These
weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus sonic/concussion damage on a successful hit.
Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy type upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Unholy: This weapon is infused with unholy power. It deals +2d6 points of
bonus damage against any creature with an allegiance to good. It bestows one
negative level on any creature with the good allegiance attempting to wield
it. The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears
when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in
actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is
wielded. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power upon their ammunition.

Purchase DC Modifier: +1.

Wounding (melee weapons only): This weapon deals damage to a creature such
that a wound it inflicts bleeds for 1 point of damage per round thereafter in
addition to the normal damage the weapon deals. Multiple wounds from the
weapon result in cumulative bleeding loss. The bleeding can only be stopped by
a successful Treat Injury check (DC 15) or the application of any cure spell
or other healing spell.

Purchase DC Modifier: +3.

