---
title: Staffs
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [FX Items](/arcana.d20.srd/fx.items) > Staffs

## Staffs

Staffs are long shafts of wood, metal, or other materials that store a
specific combination of spells.

**Doppler Staff**

This staff is unusual in that it performs only one function— albeit a
considerable one. Crafted from sandalwood carved with cloud patterns spiraling
up its shaft, the doppler staff requires that the user hold it above her head
using both hands. The staff enables its user to cast a control weather
incantation without secondary casters. The staff also grants a +4 equipment
bonus on all Knowledge (arcane lore) checks to successfully complete the
incantation. Each attempted use costs one charge, even if the incantation
fails.

Type: Staff (magic); Caster Level: 11th (arcane); Purchase DC: 41; Weight: 5
lb.

**Staff of Swarms**

This polished black staff often doubles as a walking cane, one end of which is
capped with a ornate silver insect or arachnid. The staff has a number of
uses, some identical to the corresponding divine spell. Each time the staff is
used, it depletes a certain number of charges. A fully-charged staff holds 50
charges.

  * Shadowmoth plague (lasts 9 minutes); uses 1 charge.
  * Crawling carpet (lasts 9 minutes); uses 1 charge.
  * Rage of bees (lasts 9 minutes); uses 2 charges.

Type: Staff (magic); Caster Level: 9th (divine); Purchase DC: 45; Weight: 5
lb.

**Staff of the Urban Jungle**

This staff is crafted from a long piece of rebar and topped with a variety of
bangles, including doll heads, wires, and bolts. It requires that the user
hold it forth in at least one hand.

The staff has a number of uses, some identical to the corresponding arcane
spell. Each time the staff is used, it depletes a certain number of charges. A
fully-charged staff holds 50 charges.

  * Arcane graffiti; use no charges.
  * Change self; uses 1 charge.
  * Power device (lasts 90 minutes); uses 1 charge.
  * Burglar’s buddy (lasts 9 minutes; Will save DC 14); uses 1 charge.
  * Nondetection (lasts 9 hours; Will save DC 15); uses 1 charge.
  * Synchronicity (lasts 90 minutes; Will save DC 17); uses 2 charges.

Type: Staff (magic); Caster Level: 9th (arcane); Purchase DC: 45; Weight: 5
lb.

**Staff of Voltage**

This staff is made from a solid piece of copper and etched with lightning
bolts or electrical symbols resembling circuitry. It requires that the user
hold it forth in at least one hand. A fully-charged staff holds 50 charges.
The staff has a number of uses, some identical to the corresponding arcane
spell. Each time the staff is used, it depletes a certain number of charges.

  * Degauss (by touch); uses 1 charge.
  * Electromagnetic pulse (DC 15); uses 1 charge.
  * Lightning bolt (9d6 points of electricity damage; Reflex save DC 15); uses 1 charge.

Type: Staff (magic); Caster Level: 9th (arcane); Purchase DC: 40; Weight: 5
lb.

