---
title: Tattoos
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [FX Items](/arcana.d20.srd/fx.items) > Tattoos

## Tattoos

Tattoos are single-use “items” containing a spell-like effect that effects
only the bearer.

Sample tattoos include the following:

**Broken Arrow Tattoo**

The bearer of the tattoo, which usually looks like a broken arrow, gains
damage reduction 10/+2 against ranged weapons that fire arrows, bolts, or
bullets (as per the protection from arrows/bullets spell). The effect lasts
for 50 minutes.

Type: Tattoo (magic); Caster Level: 5th (arcane); Purchase DC: 20; Weight: —.

**Bullseye Tattoo**

The bearer of this bullseye tattoo gains a +20 insight bonus on her next
single attack, as per the true strike spell. The attack ignores any miss
chance that applies to attacks against a concealed target.

Type: Tattoo (magic); Caster Level: 1st (arcane); Purchase DC: 17; Weight: —.

**Caduceus Tattoo**

This tattoo is usually shaped like a medical caduceus (a pair of serpents
entwined around a staff). Activating the tattoo triggers a caduceus
incantation that affects a single target: the bearer or another creature
touched by the bearer. The effects are instantaneous, and once the tattoo is
successfully created, no skill checks are required to activate the spell and
there is no chance of the incantation failing.

The magic of the caduceus tattoo immediately ends any and all of the following
adverse conditions affecting the target: temporary ability damage (but not
permanent ability drain), blindness (including dazzled effects), confusion or
insanity, daze, deafness, fatigue, exhaustion, feeblemindedness, nausea, and
poison. It also cures up to 150 points of damage. A single tattoo is enough to
simultaneously achieve all these effects. The tattoo’s magic also removes
negative levels, but it does not restore permanently drained levels.

Type: Tattoo (magic); Caster Level: 11th*; Purchase DC: 26; Weight: —.

*See the Incantation-Based FX Items sidebar.

**Tattoo of Spell Resistance**

This tattoo comes in various patterns, although tribal bands around the
forearm or bicep are the most common. The bearer of this tattoo gains SR 21
for 9 minutes once the tattoo is activated.

Type: Tattoo (magic); Caster Level: 9th (divine); Purchase DC: 24; Weight: —.

