---
title: Weapons
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
**Bladegun**

A bladegun is a magic pistol that transforms into a magic short sword (and
back again) upon command. Each bladegun is a specific make of handgun. The
handgun and short sword versions of the weapon possess the same enhancement
bonus (+1 to +3). Turning the handgun into a short sword—and vice versa— takes
a move action. A bladegun in handgun form must be loaded with ammunition to
fire (as any gun).

Type: Weapon (magic); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: 16 + pistol’s purchase
DC (+1), 21 + pistol’s purchase DC (+2), 26 + pistol’s purchase DC (+3);
Weight: Varies (as pistol or short sword).

**Chain Saw of the Psycho**

This battered chain saw has a +1 to +3 enhancement bonus. It constantly drips
oil and small amounts of blood, and it does not require gas to activate. The
chain saw deals x 3 damage (instead of x 2 damage) on a successful critical
hit.

Any creature with a good allegiance who handles a chain saw of the psycho
gains two negative levels. These negative levels remain so long as the chain
saw is in hand and disappear when it is no longer wielded. These negative
levels never result in actual level loss, but they cannot be overcome in any
way while the chain saw is wielded.

Type: Weapon (magic); Caster Level: 10th; Purchase DC: 25 (+1), 30 (+2), 35
(+3); Weight: 10 lb.

**Cloudkill Grenade**

This smoke grenade contains greenish ooze. When used, it releases a pungent
green cloud, as the cloudkill spell cast by a 9th-level Mage. The grenade is
destroyed once used. The price listed is for a box of six grenades.

Type: Weapon (magic); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: 30 (per box); Weight: 2
lb. (per grenade).

**Deadeye Rifle**

The deadeye rifle is a Barrett Light Fifty sniper rifle with an enhancement
bonus of +1 to +3. The stock is covered with elaborate runes, and the deadeye
rifle is considerably lighter than a normal Barrett Light Fifty. The rifle’s
wielder suffers no penalties for 5 range increments, with each additional
increment accruing only a –1 penalty.

Type: Weapon (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 42 (+1), 47 (+2), 52
(+3); Weight: 20 lb.

**Demolition Hammer**

This weapon resembles a standard sledgehammer (use the warhammer statistics)
with runes carved into its wooden handle. Besides its enhancement bonus (+1 to
+3), the hammer has a destroy seed incantation bound into it that the wielder
may activate once per day after a successful melee attack. The target must
succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 20) or take 10d6 points of damage. If the
target is reduced to –10 hit points or less (or a construct, object, or undead
is reduced to 0 hit points), it is destroyed as if disintegrated, leaving
behind only a trace of fine dust.

Type: Weapon (magic); Caster Level: 11th*; Purchase DC: 30 (+1), 35 (+2), 40
(+3); Weight: 8 lb.

**Thunderclap Taser**

This taser releases a deafening blast of thunder when it strikes an opponent.
It deals normal damage (1d4 electrical) plus an additional 2d6 points of
sonic/concussion damage. The taser’s battery is exhausted after a successful
hit and must be replaced after each use.

Type: Weapon (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 20; Weight: 1 lb.

