---
title: Wondrous Items
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [FX Items](/arcana.d20.srd/fx.items) > Wondrous Items

## Wondrous Items

Wondrous items include anything that doesn’t fall into the other groups,
including jewelry, tools, books, apparel, and gadgets.

Sample wondrous items include the following:

**Air Duct Infiltration Suit**

This is a pale blue pair of coveralls, like the kind worn by many janitors,
that are favored by corporate spies. Four times per day, the wearer can use
the suit to trigger a gaseous form spell, allowing him to travel through a
building’s air ducts.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 32; Weight: 2 lb.

**Animated Tools**

Two different sets of animated tools exist: the “mechanoset” is designed for
mechanical devices, while the “electroset” is intended for electrical devices.
When used like ordinary tools, animated tools operate as a deluxe tool kit of
the appropriate type (+2 equipment bonus on Repair checks), although they have
the same size and weight as a basic kit.

On command, the tool animate and begin repairing a single damaged item of the
appropriate type. The animated tools must be placed within 5 feet of the item
to be repaired, and the user must remain within 30 feet for the duration of
the repairs. When used in this manner, the animated tools act as though they
have 10 ranks in the Repair skill (Repair +10). The animated tools have a
hardness of 10 and 10 hit points (total). They cannot be commanded to attack.
Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: 34; Weight: 12
lb. (electronic) or 22 lb.(mechanical).

**ARCANOBOTS Action Figure**

ARCANOBOTS action figures are durable, articulated, collectible robots powered
by magic (though to most of the world, this is just marketing hyperbole). When
powered by magic batteries (as opposed to normal batteries), they respond to
the verbal commands of their owners. They come equipped with pop-out jet wings
and miniature “death ray” guns that deal light sonic/concussion damage (unless
powered by normal batteries, in which case they fire harmless beams of light).

An ARCANOBOT filled with magic batteries operates for 24 hours, at which point
it becomes an inanimate, normal toy.

Magic batteries can be obtained from the manufacturer’s web site (purchase DC
36); most visitors to the web site (who don’t recognize the arcanobots’ true
magical nature) assume that the high-cost “magic” batteries are a joke or
publicity stunt. Only those with a true understanding of Shadow are likely to
pay the price to unlock the Arcanobots actual potential. An ARCANOBOT action
figure has the following statistics:

Arcanobot: CR 1/4; Diminutive construct; HD 1/8d10; hp 1; Mas —; Init +3; Spd
10 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 17, touch 17, flat-footed 14 (+3 Dex, +4
size); BAB +0; Grap –16; Atk +0 melee (1d2–4 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +3
ranged touch (1d3 sonic/concussion, “death ray”); Full Atk +0 melee (1d2–4
nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +3 ranged touch (1d3 sonic/concussion, “death
ray”); FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., construct
immunities; AL creator or owner; SV Fort +0, Ref +3, Will –5; AP 0; Rep +0;
Str 3, Dex 16, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

Type:Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 10th; Purchase DC: 5 (does not
include magic batteries); Weight: 1 lb.

**Backpack of Holding**

This appears to be a common daypack, typically used by students and hikers.
The backpack of holding opens into a nondimensional space: Its inside is
larger than its outside dimensions. Regardless of what is put into the
backpack, it weighs a fixed amount. This weight, and the limits in weight and
volume of the backpack’s contents, depend on the backpack’s type, as shown
below.


<table> <tr><th>Pack Type</th><th>Weight</th><th>Weight Limit of Contents</th><th>Volume Limit of Contents</th><th>Purchase DC</th></tr> <tr><td>Light backpack</td><td>2 lb.</td><td>250 lb.</td><td>30 cu. ft.</td><td>34</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Medium backpack</td><td>5 lb.</td><td>500 lb.</td><td>70 cu. ft.</td><td>36</td></tr> <tr><td>Heavy backpack</td><td>8 lb.</td><td>1,000 lb.</td><td>150 cu. ft.</td><td>38</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Jumbo backpack</td><td>20 lb.</td><td>1,500 lb.</td><td>250 cu. ft.</td><td>41</td></tr> </table>



If the backpack is overloaded, or if sharp objects pierce it (from inside or
outside), the bag ruptures and is ruined. All contents are lost forever. If a
backpack of holding is turned inside out, its contents spill out, unharmed,
but the backpack must be put right before it can be used again. If living
creatures are placed within the backpack, they can survive for up to 10
minutes, after which time they suffocate. Retrieving a specific item from a
backpack of holding is a move action unless the bag contains more than an
ordinary backpack would hold, in which case retrieving a specific item is a
full-round action.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: Varies; Weight:
Varies.

**Bad Hair Day Clip**

At first this seems like a cheap, plastic hair clip of the kind found in most
convenience stores, but closer inspection reveals a tiny rune carved into the
grip. This cursed item contains a version of the afflict incantation seed that
causes the person wearing it to suffer a –4 morale penalty on all saving
throws, Charisma checks, and Charisma-based skill checks. Removing the hair
clip requires a remove curse or break enchantment spell.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 11th*; Purchase DC: 39 (often sold
as a mundane hair clip, purchase DC 1); Weight: —.

**Camera of Soul Stealing**

This bulky, old-fashioned instant camera steals the life force of anyone
caught in its field of view. Once per day, the user of the camera of soul
stealing can take a picture (the camera does not need to be loaded with film).
Anyone within a 30-foot cone must succeed at a Will save (DC 20) or gain 1d4
negative levels. If a creature successfully makes the Will save, it is
permanently immune to the effects of that camera of soul stealing.

The pictures taken by the camera of soul stealing are black and white, and
they possess a horrific, mind-bending quality such that people look gaunt and
haunted, objects are twisted in a sinister way, and shadows seem darker and
menacing.

Type:Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 10th; Purchase DC: 37; Weight: 5 lb.

**Demonic Biker’s Jacket**

This worn and faded leather jacket is covered with spikes, rivets, and metal
chains. A large skull shrouded in flame adorns the back. The jacket makes the
wearer look dangerous and menacing, granting a +4 equipment bonus on
Intimidate checks. Once per day, the wearer’s hands can transform into gnarled
talons for up to 10 rounds. The transformation allows the jacket’s wearer to
make unarmed strikes without provoking attacks of opportunity. The wearer
deals 1d6 points of lethal damage (plus Strength modifier, if any) with each
successful unarmed strike.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 35; Weight: 4 lb.

**Driving Ace Gloves**

These snug, leather racing gloves provide a +5 equipment bonus on all Drive
checks while operating a land vehicle (no benefit for boats, planes, or
helicopters). Both gloves must be worn for the magic to be effective.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 33; Weight: —.

**Eagle Eye Sunglasses**

These stylish sunglasses grant superior vision as well as protecting the
wearer’s eyes from bright lights and UV rays. The sunglasses grant a +5
equipment bonus on Spot checks made in brightly lit locations.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: —.

**Eldritch Cell Phone**

This cell phone has an unusually long and odd-shaped antenna but is otherwise
nondescript. It has the ability to connect to any other phone regardless of
weather conditions or distance. The connection has a slight warble to it, but
is otherwise free of static and other interference. If the person being
contacted doesn’t have a phone, the eldritch cell phone automatically dials
the phone nearest to the individual (even though the contact might be unable
to reach it). Furthermore, the eldritch cell phone magically encrypts the
conversation so that anyone who taps into the conversation (using a cellular
interceptor or other hardware) hears only gibberish.

The eldritch cell phone has a built-in caller ID defeater and cannot be traced
by mundane technology.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 32; Weight: —.

**Fabric of Style**

This bolt of fine, silky fabric is wrapped around a person’s body. On command,
fabric of style turns into a any sort of outfit of excellent quality, but does
not include accessories like jewelry, watches, and so forth. Fabric of style
also grants a +2 equipment bonus on Charisma checks and Charisma-based skill
checks while worn. The style of outfit can be changed, but the fabric of style
must be removed and donned again, requiring a full-round action. If any part
of the outfit is removed, the fabric of style turns back into the bolt of
cloth.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 36; Weight: 3 lb.

**Fuel Tablets**

These amber-colored tablets come in bottles of ten. Each fuel tablet
transforms into liquid or gaseous fuel (gasoline, diesel, kerosine, jet fuel,
or propane) when dropped into the fuel tank of a vehicle or other machine. The
fuel completely fills the tank, but is otherwise like regular fuel and is
destroyed once used.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 29 (per bottle);
Weight: —.

**Glasses of Minute Seeing**

These normal looking glasses have specially crafted lenses. When worn, they
grant the wearer a +5 equipment bonus on Search checks to locate or identify
features such as tiny seams, marks, cracks, or imperfections.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: —.

**Haz-Mat Gloves**

These elbow-length, optic yellow gloves are made of coarse, stiff material.
The wearer gains acid, cold, and fire resistance 10 so long as both gloves are
worn.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 35; Weight: 5 lb.

**Hidden Holster**

This concealed carry holster can hold any handgun and grants a +5 circumstance
bonus on Sleight of Hand checks to conceal the weapon. The bonus applies to
physical searches as well as casual inspection.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 33; Weight: 0.5
lb.

**Instant Ice Box**

This item looks like an ordinary 1-foot-wide, 3-foot-long, and 1.5-foot-deep
picnic cooler with a 2-inch-thick plastic cover. The only apparent difference
are the three buttons on the hasp. When the lid is closed and one or more of
the buttons are pressed, the instant ice box will magically cool any materials
placed inside for as long as the lid remains closed. If the lid is opened, the
effect ends. The cooler has a total of 50 charges that can be spent in three
different ways.

Chill (uses 1 charge): If any one of the buttons is pressed, the box chills
all the contents to a temperature of 40°F (4.5°C), as though placed in a
domestic refrigerator.

Preserve (uses 2 charges): If any two of the buttons are pressed, the box
chills all the contents to a temperature of 0°F (–18°C), as though placed in a
domestic freezer.

Freeze (uses 3 charges): If all three buttons are pressed, the box chills all
the contents to a temperature of –27°F (–32.75°C), about the temperature used
for storing freeze-dried medical supplies.

An instant ice box drained of all charges functions as an ordinary cooler.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 33; Weight: 5 lb.

**Invisifinder Goggles**

These military-grade night vision goggles are carved with runes and other
occult symbols. In addition to the benefits of regular night-vision goggles,
they also allow the wearer to see invisibility as the spell.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: 3 lb.

**Lucky Deck**

This ordinary looking deck of playing cards usually features a stylized genie
or similar image on the backs of its cards, The lucky deck grants its owner a
+5 luck bonus on Gamble checks involving card games (such as poker or single-
deck blackjack). To become the owner, a person must keep the deck on his or
her person for 24 continuous hours.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: —.

**Lucky Dice**

These ordinary looking, casino-grade dice grant a +5 luck bonus on Gamble
checks when used for any dice games (such as craps). Because they work for
anyone who uses them, the user typically palms them between throws to avoid
suspicion (requiring a separate Sleight of Hand check).

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: —.

**Lucky Suit**

A polyester suit consisting of a garish plaid jacket and lime green pants, the
lucky suit protects the wearer from ranged attacks as though he had total
concealment (50% miss chance). The suit doesn’t actually conceal or displace
the wearer, but helps the wearer avoid range attacks that might normally hit.
The concealment doesn’t apply to melee attacks. The wearer also gains a +2
luck bonus on Reflex saves.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 38; Weight: 3 lb.

**Magic Billiard-Ball**

Once per day, this otherwise normal looking toy Magic Billiard-ball can be
used to cast augury (as by a 5th-level Acolyte). To activate this ability, the
user must state the question out loud and shake the Magic Billiard-ball. It
provides no answers whatsoever if used more than once in a 24-hour period.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: —.

**Medicine Bundle**

This small leather pouch, filled with herbs and crystals, is adorned with
small beads and feathers. While worn, it provides a +4 resistance bonus on
Fortitude saves. The medicine bundle becomes useless once the wearer fails to
make a save. Only one medicine bundle can be worn at a time for any benefit
—wearing multiple medicine bundles negates the bonus.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 1st; Purchase DC: 26; Weight: —.

**Muse Statuette**

This six-inch-tall statuette of a beautiful woman animates and provides
suggestions to the controller on ways to improve whatever art form they are
working on (provided the user knows the appropriate verbal command). The
statue grants a +5 circumstance bonus on any Craft (visual art or writing)
skill check. The statue has a hardness of 5 and 5 hit points. If the muse
statuette is destroyed, its owner takes a –10 penalty on Craft (visual art)
and Craft (writing) checks for the next year. A remove curse spell negates
this penalty.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: 2 lb.

**Parka of Warmth**

This winter parka grants cold resistance 10 to the wearer. Unless the wearer
takes actual damage, the parka of warmth keeps him at a constant comfortable
temperature. This ability overlaps (does not stack) with any other cold
resistance the wearer might have.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 33; Weight: 3 lb.

**Pen of Invisible Ink**

This pen looks like an old-fashioned calligraphy stylus, but contains its own
magical supply of black ink. Any letter printed with this pen appears normal
until the user speaks a name and blows upon the paper. Once spoken, the ink
fades and can only be viewed by the person who was stated at the time of
writing. If the name is not specific, then anyone with the same name will be
able to read the message as normal.

A read magic spell will indicate that invisible ink has been used, but will
not reveal the message. It is possible to create a nonmagical chemical
compound (Craft [chemical] check, DC 25) that, when spread over the surface of
the paper, reveals the message written in invisible ink.

A pen of invisible ink holds enough ink for 50 messages.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 29; Weight: —.

**Quick-Draw Holster**

Any handgun placed in this hip holster fits perfectly. The quick-draw holster
allows its wearer to draw or holster the weapon as a free action (as though
the wearer had the Quick Draw feat).

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: 1 lb.

**Replay Mirror**

This 3-foot-by-3-foot mirror has an attractive, modern frame. Uttering a
command word causes the mirror to “record” anything within its field of view,
exactly like a video recorder, for 1 hour. One can also speak a command word
instructing the mirror to begin recording anywhere up to 1 hour in the future.
On command, the mirror can “replay” the images that it has captured (visual
only, no audio).

The viewer can move back and forth to change viewing angles, just like looking
in a regular mirror. The mirror recording can move in reverse, pause, and fast
forward, just like a normal, high-quality VCR. The mirror can remember up to 3
hours of recordings, “erasing” the oldest images first.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 35; Weight: 20
lb.

**Rod of Technology**

This 18-inch-long metal rod is covered in wires and diodes, and topped with a
large crystal. Six switches are built into its length. Each switch activates a
special power of the rod.

The first button turns the rod into a portable satellite telephone.

The second button transforms the rod into a metal detector.

The third switch turns the rod into a lock release gun.

The fourth button transforms the rod into a GPS receiver.

The fifth switch causes the rod’s crystal tip to shed bright light equivalent
to a light spell.

The sixth button delivers an electrical pulse to any device touched by the
rod’s crystal tip, duplicating the effects of a power device or degauss spell
(at the wielder’s discretion).

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 1st; Purchase DC: 29; Weight: 6 lb.

**Shadow Detector**

The Shadow detector looks like a normal hand-held metal detector, but is
inscribed with a variety of occult runes. When waved over a living creature
within 5 feet, it can determine whether it is a creature of Shadow (which
includes Shadowkind characters). The Shadow detector works in the same way as
a detect magical aura, but only detects creatures of Shadow.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 31; Weight: 2 lb.

**Spectacles of Speed Reading**

These octagonal-framed spectacles resemble ordinary reading glasses, but they
have been enchanted with a version of the bibliolalia incantation. While
wearing these glasses, a character increases her reading speed to 10 pages per
minute (or reduces required reading time to 20% of the listed time) and, for
the 30 minutes following the completion of a book, has perfect recall of
everything she read. After that, she must make a Research check (DC = one-
fifth of the book’s page count) to remember more than general information.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 11th*; Purchase DC: 39; Weight: —.

**Stamps of Delivery**

Normally found in books of six, stamps of delivery are large, ornate postage
stamps bearing the image of the Greek god Hermes. A letter or package weighing
no more than 5 pounds that bears a stamp of delivery will instantly transport
to the address listed on the label (arriving at the appropriate mail slot,
box, or in front of the main door if there isn’t one). The stamp of delivery
can be placed on any object (within the target weight), as long as it has the
target address is labeled somewhere on its surface.

If successfully delivered, the stamp of delivery bears an illegible but
visible postmark and cannot be used again. If the address is incorrect but
actually exists, the package will deliver itself to that location. If the
address labeled on the package does not exist, the package will not transport
and the stamp of delivery will be rendered useless.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 7th; Purchase DC: 32 (per book);
Weight: —.

**Tempus Fugit Watch**

The tempus fugit watch is an antique gold pocket watch with numerous hands
that do not seem to conform to the standard array of hours, minutes, and
seconds. It uses long-forgotten and extremely powerful magic to stop time for
a short while while enabling its wearer to move about freely. These watches
are only found, as the secret of their manufacture has been lost.

Once per day, the tempus fugit watch can make time cease to flow for everyone
but the wearer. In reality, the wearer speeds up so greatly that all other
creatures seem frozen, though they are moving at their regular speed. The
wearer is free to act for 1d4+1 rounds of apparent time. While the time stop
is in effect, other creatures are invulnerable to the wearer’s attacks and
spells. A spell that affects an area and has a duration longer than the
remaining duration of the time stop (such as cloudkill) have their normal
effects on other creatures once the time-stopping effect ends. Normal and
magical fire, cold, gas, and the like can still harm the wearer during the
time stop. The wearer cannot move or harm items held, carried, or worn by a
creature stuck in normal time, but the wearer can affect any item that is not
in another creature’s possession. The wearer is not detectable while the
effect lasts.

There is a 1% chance per use that the watch ceases to function after its last
use. Once it ceases to function, the watch cannot be repaired.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 10th; Purchase DC: 37; Weight: —.

**Token of Friendship**

Tokens of friendship are tiny silver charms in various shapes strung on silver
necklaces or bracelets. Groups of up to 10 charms (all of the same design) are
enchanted at the same time with a version of the satellite tracking
incantation. Anyone wearing one of these charms can, as a move equivalent
action, determine the exact location of any other single person wearing
another of the matched charms. As per the incantation, the charms provide only
GPS coordinates.

Type:Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 13th; Purchase DC: 41; Weight: —.

**Translator’s Earpiece**

This tiny molded earpiece (which requires a succcessful Spot check, DC 20, to
notice) lets the wearer speak and understand the language of any intelligent
creature, whether it is a racial tongue or regional dialect (as per the
tongues spell, albeit continuously). It does not allow the wearer to
understand or transcribe written foreign languages.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 33; Weight: —.

**Trench Coat of Useful Items**

This appears to be an unremarkable black trench coat, but a character who dons
it notes that it is adorned with small cloth patches in various shapes. Only
the wearer of trench coat can see these patches, recognize them for what items
they become, and detach them. One patch can be detached each round. Detaching
a patch causes it to become an actual item, as indicated below. A newly
created trench coat of useful items always has two each of the following
patches:

  * Flashlight, standard
  * Knife
  * Multipurpose tool
  * Duct tape
  * 150-foot-long rope
  * Boltcutter

In addition, the trench coat has 2d6+4 other items, determined by rolling on
the table below.


<table> <tr><th>d%</th><th>Result</th></tr> <tr><td>01–08</td><td>Bundle of cash (increase Wealth bonus by +2)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>09–15</td><td>Loaded flare gun (with 3 extra rounds)</td></tr> <tr><td>16–22</td><td>Gas mask (with an extra filter canister)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>23–30</td><td>Night vision goggles</td></tr> <tr><td>31–44</td><td>24-foot-long metal ladder</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>45–51</td><td>Diamondback X-20 mountain bike</td></tr> <tr><td>52–59</td><td>Steel handcuffs</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>60–68</td><td>Portable generator (with full tank of gas)</td></tr> <tr><td>69–75</td><td>Fire exitinguisher</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>76–83</td><td>Small bag of jewels (increase Wealth bonus by +4)</td></tr> <tr><td>84–90</td><td>Cell phone (connects to any cellular network and works for 8 hours before becoming useless)</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>91–96</td><td>First aid kit</td></tr> <tr><td>97–00</td><td>Roll twice more, ignoring results of 97–00</td></tr> </table>



Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: 35; Weight: 1 lb.

**Umbrella of Feather Falling**

If this umbrella is open, the user can jump from any height and drift to the
ground as though affected by a feather fall spell. The umbrella does not
function if it is not open, although the user can attempt to do so while
falling by succeeding at a Dexterity check (DC 10), taking no damage if
successful. Failure indicates that the umbrella does not open in time, and the
user takes the full damage from the fall.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 1st; Purchase DC: 30; Weight: 2 lb.

**Universal ID**

This blank piece of plastic is the size of a credit card and can transform
into any form of ID on command, including photo, holographic imprints, and
watermarks (as per the magic ID spell). It does not create a magnetic strip or
other form of nonvisual information. The card must be held by the user for the
image to be changed.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 1st; Purchase DC: 29; Weight: —.

**Video Camera of True Seeing**

This video camera is covered in runes and sigils. In addition to operating
like a normal video camera, it is also capable of videotaping things unseen by
normal eyes, as if through the true seeing spell. The camera records invisible
beings as well as the actual form of Shadow creatures with perfect clarity.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 9th; Purchase DC: 37; Weight: 2 lb.

**Watch of Speed**

This modern looking wristwatch improves the wearer’s concept of time, granting
a +2 equipment bonus on initiative checks. This bonus stacks with other
abilities that improve initiative, such as the Improved Initiative feat.

Type: Wondrous Item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 33; Weight: —.

