---
title: Ambassador
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Classes](/future.d20.srd/classes) > Ambassador

## Ambassador

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Charismatic hero basic
class, though other paths are conceivable.

### Requirements

To qualify to become an Ambassador, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Diplomacy 6 ranks, Knowledge (civics) 6 ranks, Knowledge (theology and
philosophy) 6 ranks.

Charismatic Hero Talents: Charm, favor.

Allegiance: An Ambassador must pledge her primary allegiance to a faction,
nation, world, or empire and remain a dutiful servant of this body; if the
Ambassador breaks this allegiance, she loses all the benefits of the
Diplomatic Immunity and Open Arms class features (see Class Features, below).

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Ambassador advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Ambassador gains 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Ambassador gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half her
character level, rounded down, every time she attains a new level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Ambassador’s class skills are as follows.

Bluff (Cha), Computer Use (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Gather Information (Cha),
Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge (behavioral sciences, civics, current events,
history, theology and philosophy) (Int), Profession (Wis), Read/Write Language
(none), Research (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), and Speak Language (none).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Int modifier (4 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Ambassador</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>Diplomatic immunity</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+3</td><td>Open arms</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>Information access</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>Stipend</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>Restricted access</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+6</td><td>Stipend</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+6</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+7</td><td>Select consuls</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td></tr> </table>


### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Ambassador advanced class.

**Diplomatic Immunity**

Starting at 1st level, if the Ambassador is arrested for a crime, she can make
a Diplomacy check to invoke her diplomatic credentials and not suffer the
usual legal penalty or punishment. The severity of the crime determines the DC
of the Diplomacy check, and how authorities react if the Ambassador succeeds.
See Table: Diplomatic Immunity for Diplomacy check DCs based on the severity
of the crime.

If one of the Ambassador’s consuls (see the select consul class feature,
below) is arrested for a crime and unable to secure her own release, the
Ambassador may intercede on the consul’s behalf. One may aid the other’s
Diplomacy check.An Ambassador who routinely invokes the privilege of
diplomatic immunity—either on her own behalf or to protect her selected
consuls—is likely to be recalled or terminated by those she has sworn to
represent.


<table> <tr><th colspan="4">Table: Diplomatic Immunity</th></tr> <tr><th>Severity of Crime</th><th>Examples</th><th>DC</th><th>Effect of Successful Diplomacy Check</th></tr> <tr><td>Class 5</td><td>Disturbing the peace, public intoxication, noninjurious traffic violation</td><td>15</td><td>–2 penalty on subsequent Diplomacy checks in that area</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Class 4</td><td>Possession of controlled substance, injurious traffic violation, operating business without a license, operating a vehicle or starship without a license, assault without a deadly weapon</td><td>20</td><td>–5 penalty on subsequent Diplomacy a checks in that area</td></tr> <tr><td>Class 3</td><td>Attempted bribery of a public official, robbery or grand theft, aiding and abetting a known felon, assault with a deadly weapon, possession of a concealed weapon</td><td>25</td><td>–10 penalty on subsequent Diplomacy checks in the area</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Class 2</td><td>Murder or manslaughter, fraud, smuggling, assault against a public official, trafficking in controlled substances</td><td>30</td><td>Deportation within 2d6 hours</td></tr> <tr><td>Class 1</td><td>Conspiracy against the government, murder of a public official, sabotage of public utilities</td><td>35</td><td>Detention pending the diplomatic action by character’s affiliated government</td></tr> </table>
 **Open Arms**

Beginning at 2nd level, the Ambassador is skilled at initiating peaceful
negotiations. She may add a competence bonus equal to one-half her Ambassador
class level on all Diplomacy checks.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Ambassador gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Ambassador must meet all the
prerequisites of the feat to select it. Attentive, Defensive Martial Arts,
Dodge, Educated, Improved Initiative, Low Profile, Oathbound, Renown,
Trustworthy.

**Information Access**

Starting at 4th level, the Ambassador can make Gather Information checks
without spending money or making Wealth checks, provided she is dealing with
individuals or organizations that are helpful, friendly, indifferent, or
unfriendly toward her or those she represents. Dealing with individuals or
organizations that are hostile requires the Ambassador to make Wealth checks
as usual when using the Gather Information skill.

**Stipend**

Skilled diplomats are well paid for their loyalty and dedication, and they are
accustomed to traveling in style. At 5th level, and again at 8th level, the
Ambassador gains a one-time Wealth bonus increase of +4.

**Restricted Access**

At 7th level, the Ambassador gains clearance to access restricted files or
classified information from any source that recognizes her faction,
organization, nation, world, or stellar empire. She gains a +5 bonus on
Computer Use checks made to defeat computer security and a +5 bonus on
Research checks.

**Select Consuls**

At 10th level, the Ambassador may appoint a number of individuals equal to her
Reputation bonus as “consuls” or “attachés.” These appointed individuals gain
all the benefits of the diplomatic immunity, information access, and
restricted access class features (described above). The Ambassador may revoke
these privileges at any time and appoint replacement consuls as she sees fit.
It takes 1d4 hours for an Ambassador to invoke or revoke a consul’s or
attaché’s privileges.

