---
title: Dogfighter
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Fast hero basic class,
though other paths are certainly possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Dogfighter, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Pilot 6 ranks.

Feat: Starship Operation (ultralight).

Base Reflex Save: +2.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Dogfighter advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Dogfighter gains 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Dogfighter gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half his
character level, rounded down, every time he attains a new level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Dogfighter’s class skills are as follows.

Bluff (Cha), Computer Use (Int), Craft (electronic, mechanical) (Int),
Knowledge (popular culture, streetwise, technology) (Int), Navigate (Int),
Pilot (Dex), Profession (Wis), Repair (Int). Skill Points at Each Level: 5 +
Int modifier (4 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Dogfighter</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+3</td><td>+0</td><td>Defender of the universe</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>Shake, rattle, and roll (1/day)</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>To the max!</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>Shake, rattle, and roll (2/day)</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>Keep it together</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>Shake, rattle, and roll (3/day)</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> </table>



### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Dogfighter advanced class.

**Bonus Feats**

At 1st, 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Dogfighter gets a bonus feat. The bonus
feat must be selected from the following list, and the Dogfighter must meet
all the prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Blind-Fight, Brawl, Gearhead, Improved Brawl, Improved Feint, Spacer, Starship
Battle Run, Starship Dodge, Starship Feint, Starship Gunnery, Starship
Mobility, Starship Operation, Starship Strafe, Zero-G Training.

**Defender Of The Universe**

Starting at 2nd level, a Dogfighter applies his Reputation bonus to the die
result whenever he spends an action point to modify an attack roll, skill
check, ability check, or saving throw made aboard a starship.

**Shake, Rattle, And Roll**

At 4th level, a Dogfighter learns how rock an enemy starship with weapons
fire. The Dogfighter must declare that he is using this ability before making
the attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). A starship
damaged by the Dogfighter’s attack is shaken for 1 round; all passengers and
crewmembers (pilots and gunners included) aboard the shaken ship take a –2
penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, and skill checks for 1 round. A
Dogfighter may use this ability once per day at 4th level, twice per day at
7th level, and three times per day at 10th level.

**To the max!**

At 5th level and beyond, a Dogfighter can coax more thrust out of a ship’s
engines, increasing its tactical speed by +500 feet. The Dogfighter must be
piloting the ship to increase its tactical speed.

**Keep It Together**

At 8th level, a Dogfighter can continue to operate a starship even after it
has been reduced to negative hit points and has begun breaking apart. The ship
may take one move action or one attack action each round. However, the ship
cannot be repaired and continues to lose 1 hit point per round, exploding once
it reaches its destruction threshold. The Dogfighter and all other personnel
aboard the ship are considered shaken, taking a –2 penalty on attack rolls,
saving throws, and skill checks.

