---
title: Dreadnought
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Classes](/future.d20.srd/classes) > Dreadnought

## Dreadnought

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Tough hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Dreadnought, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skill: Intimidate 6 ranks.

Feat: Improved Damage Threshold.

Tough Hero Talents: Any two Tough hero talents.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Dreadnought advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Dreadnought gains 1d12 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Dreadnought gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half her
character level, rounded down, every time she attains a new level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Dreadnought’s class skills are as follows.

Balance (Dex), Climb (Str), Concentration (Con), Intimidate (Cha), Jump (Str),
Profession (Wis), Survival (Wis), Swim (Str), Tumble (Dex).

Skill Points at Each Level: 3 + Int modifier (2 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Dreadnought</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>+1</td><td>Fearless, stability, unhindered</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>Ability surge (1/day), steamroller</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>Master defender (+2)</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>Ability surge (2/day), knockdown</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>+4</td><td>Master defender (+4)</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>+4</td><td>Ability surge (3/day), heavy artillery</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>+5</td><td>Master defender (+6)</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td></tr> </table>



### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Dreadnought advanced class.

**Fearless**

The Dreadnought is immune to fear effects.

**Stability**

The Dreadnought is incredibly sure-footed. She gains a +4 stability bonus on
all rolls made to resist being tripped, overrun, knocked prone, or pushed back
by a bull rush attack.

**Unhindered**

The Dreadnought treats any suit of armor worn as though its armor penalty is 2
better. Ability Surge

At 2nd level, the Dreadnought can temporarily increase her Strength, but at a
penalty to Defense. At 5th and 8th level, she can use this ability more
frequently.

The Dreadnought gains a +8 morale bonus to Strength, but takes a –2 penalty to
Defense. Activating ability surge is a free action, and the surge lasts for a
number of rounds equal to the Dreadnought’s class level. Following the ability
surge, the Dreadnought is fatigued for as many rounds as she surged, but may
negate this penalty as a free action by spending an action point. The
Dreadnought may use the ability surge once per day at 2nd level, twice per day
at 5th level, and three times per day at 8th level.

**Steamroller**

Starting at 2nd level, the Dreadnought does not need to move before making an
overrun attempt against an opponent. She also gains a +2 bonus on any trip
attack made against an opponent who blocks her overrun attempt.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Dreadnought gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Dreadnought must meet all
the prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Action Boost, Advanced Combat Martial Arts, Advanced Firearms Proficiency,
Advanced Two-Weapon Fighting, Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency
(medium), Armor Proficiency (heavy), Armor Proficiency (powered), Athletic,
Brawl, Burst Fire, Cleave, Combat Expertise, Combat Martial Arts, Combat
Reflexes, Endurance, Frightful Presence, Great Cleave, Improved Brawl,
Improved Bull Rush, Improved Combat Martial Arts, Improved Combat Throw,
Improved Disarm, Improved Knockout Punch, Improved Trip, Improved Two-Weapon
Fighting, Knockout Punch, Mobility, Power Attack, Run, Spring Attack, Strafe,
Streetfighting, Sunder, Toughness, Two-Weapon Fighting, Ultra Immune System.

**Master Defender**

Starting at 4th level, the Dreadnought becomes especially skilled in defensive
fighting. Whenever she fights defensively or takes the total defense action,
she gains a +2 bonus to Defense (in addition to the dodge bonus to Defense
gained while fighting defensively or engaged in total defense).

The Dreadnought must be wearing medium, heavy, or powered armor to gain this
bonus.

The bonus increases to +4 at 7th level and +6 and 10th level.

**Knockdown**

At 5th level and beyond, whenever the Dreadnought is allowed to apply her
Strength modifier to damage, she forces the target of her successful attack to
make at a Fortitude save (DC = damage dealt) or be knocked prone by the force
of the blow.

**Heavy Artillery**

Beginning at 8th level, a Dreadnought treats all weapons as one size category
smaller for purposes of determining whether or not she can wield them in one
hand and if they are considered light weapons.

