---
title: Explorer
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Classes](/future.d20.srd/classes) > Explorer

## Explorer

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Dedicated hero basic
class, though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become an Explorer, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Knowledge (earth and life sciences) 6 ranks, Knowledge (history,
physical sciences, or theology and philosophy) 4 ranks, Search 4 ranks,
Survival 6 ranks.

Dedicated Hero Talent: Aware.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Explorer advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Explorer gains 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Explorer gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half her
character level, rounded down, every time she attains a new level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Explorer’s class skills are as follows.

Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Decipher Script (Int), Disable Device
(Int), Drive (Dex), Gather Information (Cha), Handle Animal (Cha), Investigate
(Int), Jump (Str), Knowledge (arcane lore, art, earth and life sciences,
history, physical sciences, theology and philosophy) (Int), Listen (Wis),
Navigate (Int), Pilot (Dex), Read/Write Language ( none) , Research (Int) ,
Ride ( Dex) , Search ( Int) , Sense Motive (Wis), Speak Language (none), Spot
(Wis), Survival (Wis), Swim (Str), Treat Injury (Wis).

Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Int modifier (6 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Explorer</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>Explorer lore, survivalist</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>Resolve, skilled searcher</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>Trap sense (+1)</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>Extra step</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td><td>+4</td><td>+4</td><td>Trap sense (+2)</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>+4</td><td>+4</td><td>Explorer’s evasion</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>+4</td><td>+4</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+5</td><td>+5</td><td>+5</td><td>Extra step, trap sense (+3)</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> </table>


### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Explorer advanced class.

**Explorer Lore**

An Explorer picks up stray and obscure facts during her adventures. She may
make a special Explorer lore check with a bonus equal to her Explorer class
level + her Intelligence modifier to see whether or not she knows some
relevant knowledge about notable people, legendary items, or noteworthy
places. If the Explorer has 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (history), she gains
a +2 bonus on this check. She may take 10 but cannot take 20 on this check.

An Explorer lore check does not reveal the powers of a magic or psionic item
but may give some hint as to its general function; an Explorer may not take 10
or take 20 on this check.


<table> <tr><th colspan="3">Table: Explorer Lore</th></tr> <tr><th>DC</th><th>Type of Knowledge</th><th>Examples</th></tr> <tr><td>10</td><td>Common, known by at least a substantial minority of the local population.</td><td>A local official’s hobbies and interests; common legends or rumors about a powerful place of mystery.</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>20</td><td>Uncommon but available, known by only a few people in the area.</td><td>The coordinates of an known but uncharted world; legends or rumors about a powerful psionic artifact.</td></tr> <tr><td>25</td><td>Obscure, known by few, hard to come by.</td><td>The customs of a documented alien species; the true homeworld of an ancient royal dynasty.</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>30</td><td>Extremely obscure, known by very few, possibly forgotten by most who once knew it, possibly known only by those who don’t understand the knowledge’s significance.</td><td>The most likely location of a long-lost pharaoh’s tomb; the history of a powerful artifact and its creator; the likely coordinates of a fabled but as-yet-undiscovered planet.</td></tr> </table>
 **Survivalist**

At 1st level, the Explorer gains the bonus feats Guide and Track.

**Resolve**

Beginning at 2nd level, an Explorer gains a morale bonus equal to one-half her
Explorer class level (rounded down) on saving throws to resist fear effects
and Intimidate checks.

**Skilled Searcher**

When actively searching for secret doors or traps, an Explorer of 2nd level or
higher gains a bonus on her Search checks equal to one-half her Explorer class
level (rounded down).

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Explorer gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Explorer must meet all the
prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Action Boost, Advanced Two-Weapon Fighting, Aircraft Operation (spacecraft),
Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Attentive, Brawl, Dodge, Educated, Endurance,
Exotic Firearms Proficiency, Exotic Melee Weapon Proficiency, Heroic Surge,
Improved Feint, Improved Knockout Punch, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, Jack of
All Trades, Knockout Punch, Mobility, Nimble, Renown, Spacer, Streetfighting,
Studious, Track, Two-Weapon Fighting, Vehicle Expert.

**Trap Sense**

At 4th level, an Explorer gains an intuitive sense that alerts her to danger
from traps, giving her a +1 bonus on Reflex saves made to avoid traps and a +1
dodge bonus to Defense against attacks made by traps.

These bonuses rise to +2 at 7th level and +3 at 10th level.

**Extra Step**

An Explorer of 5th level or higher can spend an action point to take an extra
5-foot step during her turn, as a free action. This extra 5-foot step does not
provoke attacks of opportunity.

At 10th level, the Explorer can take the extra 5-foot step without spending an
action point.

**Explorer’s Evasion**

If an Explorer of 8th level or higher is exposed to any effect that normally
allows a character to attempt a Reflex saving throw for half damage, the
Explorer suffers no damage if she makes a successful saving throw. If the
Explorer already has evasion, she gains improved evasion instead. Improved
evasion works similar to evasion, except the Explorer suffers only half damage
on a failed saving throw.

