---
title: Field Officer
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Classes](/future.d20.srd/classes) > Field Officer

## Field Officer

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Charismatic hero basic
class, though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Field Officer, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +2.

Skills: Diplomacy 6 ranks, Knowledge (tactics) 6 ranks.

Feat: Personal Firearms Proficiency.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Field Officer advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Field Officer gains 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Field Officer gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half his
character level, rounded down, every time he attains a new level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Field Officer’s class skills are as follows.

Bluff (Cha), Computer Use (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Gather Information (Cha),
Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge (behavioral sciences, civics, history, physical
sciences, tactics, theology and philosophy), Read/Write Language (none), Sense
Motive (Wis), Speak Language (none).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Int modifier (4 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Field Officer</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>Leadership</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+3</td><td>Uncanny survival</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>Tactical expertise</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+5</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>August leadership</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+7</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>Tactical mastery</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+8</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+6</td><td>Commanding presence</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+9</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+6</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+10</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+7</td><td>Action trust</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td></tr> </table>



### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Field Officer advanced class.

**Leadership**

By providing supervision and guidance, a Field Officer can improve an ally’s
chances of succeeding at a skill check. Instead of making a skill check to aid
another, the Field Officer makes a Diplomacy check (DC 10). He cannot take 10
or take 20 on the check. Success grants a competence bonus on the ally’s skill
check equal to the Field Officer’s Charisma bonus or Reputation bonus,
whichever is greater. The ally must be within sight and hearing distance of
the Field Officer and must be able to understand him.

A Field Officer cannot use this ability on himself.

**Uncanny Survival**

Beginning at 2nd level, a Field Officer can add one-half his class level to
his Defense for 1 round, once per day. (The bonus applies to the Field
Officer’s touch and flat-footed Defense, as well.) He must declare he is doing
this at the beginning of his turn, and the Defense bonus lasts until his next
round of actions.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Field Officer gets a bonus feat. The bonus
feat must be selected from the following list, and the Field Officer must meet
all the prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency
(medium), Armor Proficiency (heavy), Armor Proficiency (powered), Combat
Expertise, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Mobility, Precise Shot,
Quick Draw, Renown, Shot on the Run.

**Tactical Expertise**

Starting at 4th level, as a full-round action, a Field Officer can use his
tactical knowledge to coordinate allies. Allies to be affected must be within
sight and hearing distance of the Field Officer and must be able to understand
him.

The Field Officer must make a Knowledge (tactics) check with a DC equal to 15
+ the number of allies affected. He cannot take 10 or take 20 on the check. If
the check succeeds, all affected allies gain a competence bonus on attack
rolls or a dodge bonus to Defense equal to the Field Officer’s Reputation
bonus. The Field Officer chooses which of the two benefits to impart and must
impart the same benefit to all affected allies. The benefits last for 1 round.

If the check fails, the Field Officer’s allies gain no benefit, but the action
is still spent.

A Field Officer cannot apply the benefits of this ability to himself.

**August Leadership**

The Field Officer gains this ability at 5th level. It works like the
leadership ability (see above), except the Field Officer adds his Charisma
bonus and his Reputation bonus to the ally’s skill check.

**Tactical Mastery**

At 7th level, the Field Officer requires less time to direct his allies. This
ability is similar to tactical expertise (see Tactical Expertise, above) but
requires an attack action instead of a full-round action.

**Commanding Presence**

At 8th level and beyond, a Field Officer can use an attack action and his
commanding presence to enable an ally or weaken a single foe’s resolve.

Enabling an ally requires an attack action and a successful Diplomacy check
(DC 20). If the check succeeds, the Field Officer can negate any one of the
following harmful conditions affecting a single ally: cowering, dazed,
fatigued, nauseated, panicked, shaken, or stunned. The ally to be affected
must be within sight and hearing distance of the Field Officer and must be
able to understand him.

The Field Officer cannot use this ability on himself.

Weakening a foe’s resolve requires an attack action and a successful
Intimidate check (DC = target’s level check) . If the check succeeds, the
target is shaken for a number of rounds equal to 1d6 + one-half the Field
Officer’s class level + the Field Officer’s Charisma modifier. The target must
be within sight and hearing distance of the Field Officer and must be able to
understand him. A target that resists the Field Officer’s attempt to weaken
its resolve is immune to the Field Officer’s use of this ability for 24 hours.

**Action Trust**

At 10th level, the Field Officer’s mere presence inspires, safeguards, and
motivates his allies.

As a free action, a Field Officer may spend one of his action points to modify
an ally’s attack roll, skill check, ability check, level check, or saving
throw result by +2d6 (applying a bonus of +2 to +12).

The ally to be affected must be within sight and hearing distance of the Field
Officer to gain the benefits of the Field Officer’s spent action point. A
Field Officer may use this ability once per round, and not on himself (he
gains the normal benefits for spending an action point on himself).

Any character may transfer some or all of her action points to the Field
Officer as a free action. The Field Officer must consent to the transfer, and
these action points become the Field Officer’s to spend as he sees fit.

