---
title: Mecha Jockey
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Select this advanced class if you want your character to be an expert mecha
operator, in command of a massive, armored war machine equipped with
terrifying weaponry. The fastest path into this advanced class is from the
Fast hero basic class, though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Mecha Jockey, a character must fulfill all the
following criteria.

Skills: Drive 6 ranks.

Feats: Mecha Operation.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Mecha Jockey advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Mecha Jockey gains 1d10 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Mecha Jockey gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half his
character level, rounded down, each time he attains a new level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Mecha Jockey’s class skills are as follows. Bluff (Cha), Computer Use
(Int), Drive (Dex), Knowledge (current events, popular culture, streetwise,
technology) (Int), Navigate (Int), Pilot (Dex), Profession (Wis), Read/Write
Language (none), Repair (Int), Sleight of Hand (Dex), Speak Language (none),
Spot (Wis), Tumble (Dex).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Int modifier.


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Mecha Jockey</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>Mecha Weapon Proficiency</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>Luv my mecha (+1)</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>Mecha feint</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>Luv my mecha (+2)</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td><td>Evasive action</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>Luv my mecha (+3)</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>+7</td><td>+5</td><td>Improved evasive action</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td></tr> </table>



### Class Features

The following features pertain to the Mecha Jockey advanced class.

**Mecha Weapon Proficiency**

At 1st level, the Mecha Jockey gains the bonus feat Mecha Weapon Proficiency.

**Luv My Mecha**

Starting at 2nd level, a Mecha Jockey gains a bonus on Drive, Pilot, and
Repair checks when applied to a mecha he designates as familiar. The same
bonus is applied to the Mecha Jockey’s attack rolls with the mecha’s ranged
weapons. This bonus is +1 at 2nd level and increases by 1 every three levels
thereafter (+2 at 5th level, +3 at 8th level).

To designate a mecha as familiar, the Mecha Jockey must have operated it for
at least one month. Minor changes and upgrades to the mecha don’t affect
familiarity, but if the Mecha Jockey switches to a mecha with a different
size, different superstructure, different flight system, or more than one new
weapon, he must operate it for at least one month before he is familiar with
it. A Mecha Jockey can be familiar with only one mecha at a time.

**Bonus Feat**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Mecha Jockey gains a bonus feat. The bonus
feat must be selected from the following list, and the Mecha Jockey must meet
all the prerequisites of the feat to select it. Advanced F irearms
Proficiency, Advanced Mecha Operation, Burst Fire, Cleave, Combat Expertise,
Dead Aim, Dodge, Double Tap, Far Shot, Force Stop, Gearhead, Great Cleave,
Hair Trigger, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Disarm, Improved Sunder, Improved
Trip, Mecha Crush, Mecha Fling, Mecha Operation, Mecha Sweep, Mecha Trample,
Mecha Weapon Boost, Mobility, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Point Blank Shot,
Power Attack, Precise Shot, Shot on the Run, Skip Shot, Spring Attack, Strafe,
Stun Mecha, Thruster Blast, Weapon Focus (mecha weapon only), Whirlwind
Attack.

**Mecha Feint**

At 4th level, a Mecha Jockey operating a mecha can make a Bluff check in
combat as a move action (instead of an attack action). He receives a +2 bonus
on the Bluff check made to feint in melee combat.

If the Mecha Jockey has the Improved Feint feat, his bonus on Bluff checks
made to feint increases to +4 while operating a mecha.

**Evasive Action**

At 7th level, the Mecha Jockey can make a Drive, Pilot, or Tumble check (as
appropriate) to lessen the damage dealt by a successful attack against his
mecha. If the check result exceeds the attack roll, the damage is reduced by
half (round fractions down, minimum of 1 point of damage). The Mecha Jockey
can make an evasive action check once per round.

**Improved Evasive Action**

At 10th level, the Mecha Jockey’s evasive action ability improves. A
successful Drive, Pilot, or Tumble check negates all damage dealt by the
attack.

