---
title: Space Monkey
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Tough hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Space Monkey, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Starting Occupation: Astronaut Trainee.

Skills: Craft (mechanical or structural) 6 ranks, Survival 6 ranks.

Tough Hero Talent: Any one talent from the Unbreakable Talent Tree.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Space Monkey advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Space Monkey gains 1d10 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Space Monkey gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half his
character level, rounded down, every time he attains a new level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Space Monkey’s class skills are as follows.

Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Computer Use (Int), Craft
(mechanical, structural) (Int), Demolitions (Int), Disable Device (Int), Drive
(Dex), Escape Artist (Dex), Jump (Str), Knowledge (earth and life sciences,
technology) (Int), Navigate (Int), Pilot (Dex), Repair (Int), Search (Int),
Survival (Wis), Treat Injury (Wis), Tumble (Dex).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Int modifier (4 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Space Monkey</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>Hibernation trance</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>Monkey’s wrench</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>Monkeys unite</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>Know location (+2)</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>Monkey shines</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>Know location (+4), space suitable</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+7</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td><td>Monkey shot</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td></tr> </table>



### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Space Monkey advanced class.

**Hibernation Trance**

A Space Monkey can enter a deep trance that allows him to gain the full
benefits of sleep or bed rest in half the usual time.

**Monkey’s Wrench**

Space Monkeys use tools expertly and creatively. Starting at 2nd level, a
Space Monkey gains a competence bonus equal to one-half his Space Monkey class
level on skill checks made when using a tool kit. This bonus stacks with the
tool kit’s normal equipment bonus.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Space Monkey gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Space Monkey must meet all
the prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Acrobatic, Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Aircraft Operation (spacecraft),
Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency
(medium), Armor Proficiency (heavy), Armor Proficiency (powered), Athletic,
Blind-Fight, Brawl, Builder, Combat Reflexes, Force Stop, Gearhead, Improved
Brawl, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Feint, Improved Knockout Punch, Jack of
All Trades, Knockout Punch, Power Attack, Run, Spacer*, Streetfighting,
Toughness, Vehicle Dodge, Vehicle Expert, Weapon Focus, Zero-G Training.

**Monkeys Unite**

Space Monkeys fight better together. Starting at 4th level, a Space Monkey
gains a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls when fighting adjacent to another
Space Monkey.

Furthermore, a Space Monkey gains a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls against an
opponent flanked by another Space Monkey; this bonus is in addition to the
usual +2 bonus for flanking.

**Know Location**

At 5th level, a Space Monkey gains a +2 competence bonus on Navigate and
Survival checks to avoid becoming lost. This bonus increases to +4 at 8th
level.

**Monkey Shines**

Upon reaching 7th level, a Space Monkey has learned sneaky tactics. He can use
the Bluff technique of feinting in combat as a move action, allowing him to
feint and attack in the same round.

If the Space Monkey also has the Improved Feint feat, he gains a +4 bonus
(instead of the feat’s usual +2 bonus) on Bluff checks made to feint in
combat.

**Space Suitable**

At 8th level, a Space Monkey becomes more comfortable in armor. He treats any
suit of armor as though its armor penalty and maximum Dexterity bonus were 1
better.

**Monkey Shot**

By spending an action point at the end of his turn, a 10th-level Space Monkey
gains an extra attack at his full attack bonus. (Remember that a character can
spend only one action point per round.)

