---
title: Swindler
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Classes](/future.d20.srd/classes) > Swindler

## Swindler

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Charismatic hero basic
class, though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Swindler, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Bluff 6 ranks, Disguise 4 ranks, Gamble 6 ranks.

Charismatic Hero Talents: Any two of the following talents: Charm, Coordinate,
Fast-Talk.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Swindler advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Swindler gains 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Swindler gains a number of action points equal to 7 + one-half his
character level, rounded down, every time he attains a new level in this
class. (The Swindler’s ability to manipulate probability entitles him to a
higher number of action points per class level than other advanced classes.)

**Class Skills**

The Swindler’s class skills are as follows.

Bluff (Cha), Diplomacy (Cha), Disguise (Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Forgery
(Int), Gamble (Wis), Gather Information (Cha), Knowledge (behavioral sciences,
business, civics, current events, history, popular culture, streetwise,
theology and philosophy) (Int), Perform (act) (Cha), Read/Write Language
(none), Research (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), Sleight of Hand (Dex), Speak
Language (none), Tumble (Dex).

Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Int modifier (6 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Swindler</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>Cheat fate</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>+3</td><td>Thousand faces</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>+4</td><td>Fortune’s favor (+2)</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>Warp probability (30 ft.)</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+3</td><td>+5</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>+4</td><td>+5</td><td>Fortune’s favor (+4)</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>+4</td><td>+6</td><td>Warp probability (60 ft.)</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>+6</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>+5</td><td>+7</td><td>Fortune’s favor (+6)</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td></tr> </table>


### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Swindler advanced class.

**Cheat Fate**

Fortune favors the Swindler. Once per day, he may reroll one roll that he has
just made before the success or failure of the result is announced. The
Swindler must take the result of the reroll, even if it’s worse than the
original roll.

**Thousand Faces**

A Swindler’s ability to manipulate probability makes him unpopular in certain
circles, increasing the need for a ready number of disguises. At 2nd level,
the Swindler becomes a master of the quick disguise. He can don a convincing
disguise in one-tenth the normal time (1d4 minutes).

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Swindler gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Swindler must meet all the
prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Action Boost, Blind-Fight, Confident, Deceptive, Educated, Elusive Target, Low
Profile, Nimble, Renown, Trustworthy.

**Fortune’s Favor**

Starting at 4th level, the Swindler learns to subtly manipulate the fortunes
of his adversaries, making him harder to strike in combat. He can spend an
action point to gain a +2 luck bonus to Defense against all attacks for 1
round. The Swindler must use this ability on his turn, and the bonus lasts
until just before the Swindler’s next turn. A Swindler uses this ability
instead of Dodge on his turn.

The luck bonus to Defense increases to +4 at 7th level and +6 at 10th level.

**Warp Probability**

At 5th level, the Swindler can affect another creature’s attack roll, skill
check, ability check, level check, or saving throw. As a free action during
another creature’s turn, the Swindler can spend an action point to alter the
target’s d20 roll result. The Swindler must be within 30 feet of the target,
must be able to see the target, and must declare that he’s spending the action
point before the the result of the target’s roll is revealed. The Swindler’s
action-point die result counts either as a bonus or penalty to the target’s
roll, at the Swindler’s discretion.

At 8th level, the range of this ability increases to 60 feet.

