---
title: Tracer
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Classes](/future.d20.srd/classes) > Tracer

## Tracer

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Dedicated hero basic
class, though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Tracer, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +2.

Skills: Investigate 6 ranks, Knowledge (behavioral sciences or streetwise) 6
ranks, Survival 6 ranks.

Feat: Track.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Tracer advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Tracer gains 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Tracer gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half his character
level, rounded down, every time he attains a new level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Tracer’s class skills are as follows.

Climb (Str), Computer Use (Int), Disable Device (Int), Disguise (Cha), Drive
(Dex), Gather Information (Cha), Hide (Dex), Investigate (Int), Jump (Str),
Knowledge (behavioral sciences, civics, streetwise, tactics) (Int), Listen
(Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Navigate (Int), Pilot (Dex), Research (Int),
Search (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis), Swim (Str).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Int modifier (4 + Int modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Tracer</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>Target species, Urban Tracking</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>+3</td><td>+0</td><td>Swift strike +1d6</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>Uncanny stealth (full speed)</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+5</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>+1</td><td>Swift strike +2d6</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+7</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>+2</td><td>Uncanny stealth (charge/run)</td><td>+ 4</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+8</td><td>+2</td><td>+6</td><td>+2</td><td>Swift strike +3d6</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+9</td><td>+3</td><td>+6</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+10</td><td>+3</td><td>+7</td><td>+3</td><td>Swift tracking</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> </table>


### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Tracer advanced class.

**Target Species**

At 1st level, a Tracer selects a species or specific kind of creature his
"target species". The Tracer must have previously encountered at least one
member of the target species to select it. An expert tracker, the Tracer gains
a +2 bonus on Bluff, Intimidate, Listen, Sense Motive, Spot, and Survival
checks when using these skills against members of the target species.
Likewise, he gets a +2 bonus on weapon damage rolls against such creatures.

As a free action, a Tracer may spend an action point to change his target
species.

**Urban Tracking**

At 1st level, a Tracer gains the bonus feat Urban Tracking.

**Swift Strike**

At 2nd level, the Tracer becomes skilled at taking down unwary targets
quickly. He deals +1d6 points of damage on successful melee and ranged weapon
attacks made against a flat-footed opponent. This extra damage can be lethal
or nonlethal, as determined by the choice of weapon and the manner in which
it’s used.

The extra damage increases to +2d6 at 5th level and +3d6 at 8th level.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Tracer gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat must
be selected from the following list, and the Tracer must meet all the
prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Advanced Combat Martial Arts, Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Aircraft
Operation (spacecraft), Alertness, Armor Proficiency (light), Armor
Proficiency (medium), Armor Proficiency (powered), Athletic, Combat Throw,
Dead Aim, Double Tap, Elusive Target, Far Shot, Improved Combat Martial Arts,
Improved Combat Throw, Improved Initiative, Low Profile, Nerve Pinch, Precise
Shot, Shot on the Run, Skip Shot, Spacer, Stealthy, Trustworthy, Unbalance
Opponent.

**Uncanny Stealth**

Tracers learn to move quickly yet quietly.

At 4th level, a Tracer no longer suffers the –5 penalty on Hide and Move
Silently checks while moving at full speed. At 7th level, a Tracer suffers
only a –10 penalty on Hide and Move Silently checks while running or charging
(instead of the normal –20 penalty).

**Swift Tracking**

At 10th level, the Tracer can move a full speed without penalty when using the
Survival skill to track. He can move at twice normal speed while tracking, but
takes a –10 penalty on the check when doing so.

