---
title: Xenophile
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Classes](/future.d20.srd/classes) > Xenophile

## Xenophile

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Smart hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Xenophile, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Knowledge (earth and life sciences) 6 ranks, Knowledge (technology) 6
ranks.

Smart Hero Talent: Either linguist or exploit weakness.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Xenophile advanced class.

**Hit Die**

The Xenophile gains 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

The Xenophile gains a number of action points equal to 6 + one-half her
character level, rounded down, every time she attains a new level in this
class.

**Class Skills**

The Xenophile’s class skills are as follows.

Bluff (Cha), Computer Use (Int), Craft (pharmaceutical) (Int), Decipher Script
(Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Knowledge (arcane lore, behavioral sciences, earth and
life sciences, history, technology, theology and philosophy) (Int), Read/Write
Language (none), Research (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak Language (none),
Treat Injury (Wis). Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Int modifier (6 + Int
modifier for nonhumans).


<table> <tr><th colspan="9">Table: The Xenophile</th></tr> <tr><th>Class Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>Xenolore, xenotype (1st)</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>+3</td><td>Xenoresistance (+1)</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>Xenotype (2nd)</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>+4</td><td>Xenodefense (+1), xenoresistance (+2)</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+5</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+5</td><td>Xenotype (3rd)</td><td>+2</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+6</td><td>Xenoresistance (+3)</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+6</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>+6</td><td>Bonus feat</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+7</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td><td>+7</td><td>Xenodefense (+2), xenotype (4th)</td><td>+3</td><td>+3</td></tr> </table>



### Class Features

The following class features pertain to the Xenophile advanced class.

**Xenolore**

A Xenophile can make a Knowledge check to identify certain characteristics of
a xenomorph, including any special attacks, special qualities, or
vulnerabilities. In general, the DC of the Knowledge check equals 10 + the
xenomorph’s Hit Dice. A successful check allows the Xenophile to unlock a
single fact about the xenomorph. For every 5 points by which her check result
exceeds the DC, the Xenophile learns another piece of useful information.

The type of Knowledge check depends on the xenomorph’s creature type, as shown
below:

Knowledge (arcane lore): Fey, magical beasts.

Knowledge (earth and life sciences): Aberrations, animals, dragons,
elementals, giants, humanoids, monstrous humanoids, oozes, plants, vermin.

Knowledge (technology): Constructs.

Knowledge (theology and philosophy): Outsiders, undead.

**Xenotype**

A Xenophile studies the behaviors and weaknesses of particular xenomorphs and
knows how to exploit them.

At 1st level, a Xenophile may select a type of creature (also called a
“xenotype”) from among those given on Table: Xenotypes. She must meet the
special prerequisite to choose a xenotype, as specified in the table. Due to
her extensive study of the chosen type of foe and training in the proper
techniques for combating or negotiating with such creatures, the Xenophile
gains a +2 bonus on Bluff, Intimidate, Listen, Sense Motive, Spot, and
Survival checks when using these skills against members of the chosen
xenotype. Likewise, she gets a +2 bonus on weapon damage rolls against such
creatures.

At 4th, 7th, and 10th level, the Xenophile may select an additional xenotype
from those given on the table. In addition, at each such interval, the bonus
against any one xenotype (including the one just selected, if desired)
increases by 2. A Xenophile who chooses humanoids as a xenotype must also
specify a particular species.


<table> <tr><th colspan="2">Table: Xenotypes</th></tr> <tr><th>Selected Xenotype</th><th>Special Prerequisite</th></tr> <tr><td>Aberration</td><td>Knowledge (earth and life sciences) 12 ranks</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Animal</td><td>None</td></tr> <tr><td>Construct</td><td>Knowledge (technology) 9 ranks</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Dragon</td><td>Knowledge (earth and life sciences) 9 ranks</td></tr> <tr><td>Elemental</td><td>Knowledge (earth and life sciences) 9 ranks</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Fey</td><td>Knowledge (arcane lore) 6 ranks</td></tr> <tr><td>Giant</td><td>None</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Humanoid<sup>1</sup></td><td>None</td></tr> <tr><td>Magical beast</td><td>Knowledge (arcane lore) 9 ranks</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Monstrous humanoid</td><td>Knowledge (earth and life sciences) 9 ranks</td></tr> <tr><td>Ooze</td><td>Knowledge (earth and life sciences) 9 ranks</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Outsider</td><td>Knowledge (theology and philosophy) 9 ranks</td></tr> <tr><td>Plant</td><td>None</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Undead</td><td>Knowledge (theology and philosophy) 6 ranks</td></tr> <tr><td>Vermin</td><td>None</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="2" style="font-size: .8em; text-align: left"><sup>1</sup> Choose a specific humanoid species.</td></tr> </table>

 **Xenoresistance**

At 2nd level, a Xenophile gains a +1 bonus on saving throws to resist the
extraordinary, spell-like, or supernatural attacks of species other than her
own. This bonus increases to +2 at 5th level and +3 at 8th level.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Xenophile gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Xenophile must meet all the
prerequisites of the feat to select it.

Alien Weapons Proficiency, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Educated, Medical Expert,
Mobility, Studious, Surgery, Weapon Focus, Xenomedic.

**Xenodefense**

At 5th level, during her action, the Xenophile can designate an opponent and
receive a +1 insight bonus to Defense against any subsequent attacks from that
opponent. The opponent must belong to one of the Xenophile’s chosen xenotypes
(see Xenotype, above).

The Xenophile can select a new opponent on any action. At 10th level, the
insight bonus to Defense increases to +2.

