---
title: Survival Gear
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

<table> <tr> <th>Object</th> <th><a href="/modern.d20.srd/equipment/equipment.general">Size</a></th> <th><a href="/modern.d20.srd/equipment/equipment.general">Weight</a></th> <th><a href="/modern.d20.srd/equipment/equipment.general">Purchase DC</a></th> <th><a href="/modern.d20.srd/equipment/equipment.general">Restriction</a></th> </tr> <tr><td> Backpack</td><td> Med</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 10</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td colspan="5"> Binoculars </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Standard</td><td> Small</td><td> 2 lb.</td><td> 7</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Rangefinding</td><td> Small</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Electro-optical</td><td> Small</td><td> 4 lb.</td><td> 16</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Chemical light sticks (5)</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 2</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Climbing gear</td><td> Large</td><td> 10 lb.</td><td> 11</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Compass</td><td> Dim</td><td> 0.5 lb.</td><td> 5</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Fire extinguisher</td><td> Med</td><td> 3 lb.</td><td> 8</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Flash goggles</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 2 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td colspan="5">Flashlight </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Penlight</td><td> Dim</td><td> 0.5 lb.</td><td> 3</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Standard</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 4</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Battery flood</td><td> Small</td><td> 2 lb.</td><td> 6</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Gas mask</td><td> Small</td><td> 5 lb.</td><td> 13</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> GPS receiver</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 15</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td colspan="5"> Map </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Road atlas</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 4</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> Tactical map</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 0.5 lb.</td><td> 3</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Mesh vest</td><td> Med</td><td> 7 lb.</td><td> 8</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Portable stove</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 9</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Rope (150 ft.)</td><td> Large</td><td> 12 lb.</td><td> 5</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Sleeping bag</td><td> Med</td><td> 4 lb.</td><td> 9</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td colspan="5"> Tent </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> 2-person dome</td><td> Med</td><td> 4 lb.</td><td> 11</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> 4-person dome</td><td> Med</td><td> 7 lb.</td><td> 12</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr class="shaded2"><td> 8-person dome</td><td> Large</td><td> 10 lb.</td><td> 13</td><td> — </td></tr> <tr><td> Trail rations (12)</td><td> Tiny</td><td> 1 lb.</td><td> 5</td><td> — </td></tr></table>



Survival gear helps characters keep themselves alive in the great outdoors.

### Backpack

This is a good-sized backpack, made of tough water-resistant material. It has
one or two central sections, as well as several exterior pockets and straps
for attaching tents, bedrolls, or other gear. It can carry up to 60 pounds of
gear.

A backpack gives a character a +1 equipment bonus to
[Strength](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) for the purpose of
determining [carrying capacity](/modern.d20.srd/equipment/carrying.capacity).

### Binoculars

Binoculars are useful for watching opponents, wild game, and sporting events
from a long distance.

Standard: Standard binoculars reduce the range penalty for
[Spot](/modern.d20.srd/skills/spot)
[checks](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics) to –1 for every 50
feet (instead of –1 for every 10 feet). Using binoculars for
[Spot](/modern.d20.srd/skills/spot)
[checks](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics) takes five times as
long as making the check unaided.

Rangefinding: In addition to the benefit of standard binoculars, rangefinding
binoculars include a digital readout that indicates the exact distance to the
object on which they are focused.

Electro-Optical: Electro-optical binoculars function the same as standard
binoculars in normal light. In darkness, however, users looking through them
see as if they had the darkvision ability granted by night vision goggles.

### Chemical Light Stick

This disposable plastic stick, when activated, uses a chemical reaction to
create light for 6 hours. It illuminates an area only 5 feet in radius. Once
activated, it can’t be turned off or reused. The listed purchase DC is for a
pack of 5 sticks.

### Climbing Gear

All of the tools and equipment that climbing enthusiasts use to make climbing
easier and, in some cases, possible, including ropes, pulleys, helmet and
pads, gloves, spikes, chocks, ascenders, pitons, a handax, and a harness. It
takes 10 minutes to remove the gear from its pack and outfit it for use. Use
this gear with the [Climb](/modern.d20.srd/skills/climb) skill.

### Compass

A compass relies on the Earth’s magnetic field to determine the direction of
magnetic north. A compass grants its user a +2 equipment bonus on
[Navigate](/modern.d20.srd/skills/navigate)
[checks](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics).

### Fire Extinguisher

This portable apparatus uses a chemical spray to extinguish small fires. The
typical fire extinguisher ejects enough extinguishing chemicals to put out a
fire in a 10-foot-by-10-foot area as a [move action](/modern.d20.srd/combat/move.actions). It contains enough material for
two such uses.

### Flash Goggles

These eye coverings provide total protection against blinding light.

### Flashlight

Flashlights come in a wide variety of sizes and quality levels. Those covered
here are professional, heavy-duty models, rugged enough to withstand the
rigors of modern adventuring. Flashlights negate penalties for darkness within
their illuminated areas.

Penlight: This small flashlight can be carried on a key ring. It projects a
beam of light 10 feet long and 5 feet wide at its end.

Standard: This heavy metal flashlight projects a beam 30 feet long and 15 feet
across at its end.

Battery Flood: Practically a handheld spotlight, this item projects a bright
beam 100 feet long and 50 feet across at its end.

### Gas Mask

This apparatus covers the face and connects to a chemical air filter canister
to protect the lungs and eyes from toxic gases. It provides total protection
from eye and lung irritants. The filter canister lasts for 12 hours of use.
Changing a filter is a move action. The purchase DC for one extra filter
canister is 6.

### GPS Receiver

Global positioning system receivers use signals from GPS satellites to
determine the receiver’s location to within a few dozen feet. A GPS receiver
grants its user a +4 equipment bonus on
[Navigate](/modern.d20.srd/skills/navigate)
[checks](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics), but because the
receiver must be able to pick up satellite signals, it only works outdoors.

### Map

While a compass or GPS receiver can help characters find their way through the
wilderness, a map can tell a character where he or she is going and what to
expect when he or she gets there.

Road Atlas: Road atlases are available for the entire United States, showing
all major roads in each state. They can also be purchased for most major
metropolitan areas, detailing every street in the entire region.

Tactical Map: A tactical map covers a small area—usually a few miles on a
side—in exacting detail. Generally, every building is represented, along with
all roads, trails, and areas of vegetation. Tactical maps are not available
for all areas, and, though inexpensive, they generally have to be ordered from
federal mapping agencies (taking a week or longer to obtain).

### Mesh Vest

This is a lightweight vest with a series of pockets for items such as a
compass, spare ammunition magazines, pressure bandages, and a radio, along
with loops for attaching grenades, knives, or tools. It can hold up to 40
pounds of equipment.

A mesh vest provides a +2 equipment bonus to
[Strength](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) for the purpose of
determining [carrying capacity](/modern.d20.srd/equipment/carrying.capacity).

### Portable Stove

This small stove works on kerosene or white gasoline, and can easily be broken
down and carried for backpacking.

### Rope

Climbing rope can support up to 1,000 pounds.

### Sleeping Bag

This lightweight sleeping bag rolls up compactly. It can keep a character warm
even in severe weather and can also double as a stretcher in an emergency.

### Tent

A tent keeps a character warm and dry in severe weather, providing a +2
equipment bonus on [Fortitude saves](/modern.d20.srd/basics/saving.throws)
against the effects of cold weather.

### Trail Rations

Trail rations come in a number of commercial options. They all provide the
necessary energy and nutrition for survival. The purchase DC given is for a
case of 12 meals.

