---
title: Sense Motive
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Modern D20 ](/modern.d20.srd) > [Skills](/modern.d20.srd/skills) > Sense Motive

## Sense Motive ([Wis](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores))

[Check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill): A successful
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) allows the character to
avoid being bluffed (see the [Bluff](/modern.d20.srd/skills/bluff) skill).
Sense Motive does not, however, allow a character to determine whether a given
statement is a lie. The character can also use the skill to tell when someone
is behaving oddly or to assess someone’s trustworthiness. In addition, a
character can use this skill to make an assessment of a social situation. With
a successful [check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) (DC 20),
the character can get the feeling from another’s behavior that something is
wrong. Also, the character can get the feeling that someone is trustworthy and
honorable.

Try Again?: No, though the character may make a Sense Motive
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) for each
[bluff](/modern.d20.srd/skills/bluff) made on the character.

Special: A character can [take 10](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#take10) when making a Sense Motive
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill), but can’t [take 20](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#take20).

A character with the [Attentive](/modern.d20.srd/feats/attentive) feat gets a
+2 bonus on all Sense Motive
[checks](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill).

A character can use Sense Motive to detect that a hidden message is being
transmitted via the [Bluff](/modern.d20.srd/skills/bluff) skill (DC equal to
the [bluff](/modern.d20.srd/skills/bluff)
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) result of the sender).
If the character’s check result beats the DC by 5 or more, the character
understands the secret message as well. If the character’s
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) fails by 5 or more, the
character misinterprets the message in some fashion.

Time: A Sense Motive [check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill)
may be made as a reaction to another character’s
[Bluff](/modern.d20.srd/skills/bluff)
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill). (When that’s the case,
the GM may roll the character’s Sense Motive
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) in secret, so the
character doesn’t necessarily know someone’s trying to bluff him or her.)
Using Sense Motive to get a sense of someone’s trustworthiness takes at least
1 minute.

