---
title: Sleight of Hand
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Modern D20 ](/modern.d20.srd) > [Skills](/modern.d20.srd/skills) > Sleight of Hand

## Sleight of Hand ([Dex](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores)) [Trained Only](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics); [Armor Penalty](/modern.d20.srd/equipment/armor.general)

[Check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill): A
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) against DC 10 lets a
character palm a coin-sized, unattended object. Minor feats of sleight of
hand, such as making a coin disappear, also have a DC of 10 unless an observer
is concentrating on noticing what the character is doing.

When a character performs this skill under close observation, the character’s
skill check is opposed by the observer’s [Spot](/modern.d20.srd/skills/spot)
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill). The observer’s
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) doesn’t prevent the
character from performing the action, just from doing it unnoticed. When a
character tries to take something from another person, the character’s
opponent makes a [Spot](/modern.d20.srd/skills/spot)
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) to detect the attempt.
To obtain the object, the character must get a result of 20 or higher,
regardless of the opponent’s
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) result. The opponent
detects the attempt if his or her
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) result beats the
character’s check result, whether the character takes the object or not.

A character can use Sleight of Hand to conceal a small weapon or object on his
or her body.

Try Again?: A second Sleight of Hand attempt against the same target, or when
being watched by the same observer, has a DC 10 higher than the first
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) if the first
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) failed or if the
attempt was noticed.

Special: A character can [take 10](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#take10) when making a Sleight of
Hand [check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill), but can’t [take 20](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#take20).

A character can make an untrained Sleight of Hand
[check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill) to conceal a weapon or
object, but must always [take 10](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#take10).

A character with the [Nimble](/modern.d20.srd/feats/nimble) feat and at least
1 rank in this skill gets a +2 bonus on all Sleight of Hand
[checks](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill).

Time: A Sleight of Hand [check](/modern.d20.srd/skills/skill.basics.php#skill)
is an [attack action](/modern.d20.srd/combat/attack.actions).

