
---
title: 'Privacy Policy'
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---


Index

##  Modern d20 SRD


<table class="index2col"> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/basics"> Basics </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/fx.items"> FX Items </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/classes"> Classes </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/ordinaries"> Ordinaries </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/combat"> Combat </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/psionics"> Psionics </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/conditions"> Condition Summary </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/reputation"> Reputation </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/creature.types"> Creature Types </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/skills"> Skills </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/creatures"> Creatures </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/special.abilities"> Special Abilities </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/environment.hazards"> Environment &amp; Hazards </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/starting.occupation"> Starting Occupation </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/equipment"> Equipment </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/vehicle.movement.and.combat"> Vehicle Movement and Combat </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/feats"> Feats </a> </td> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/wealth"> Wealth </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="modern.d20.srd/fx"> FX </a> </td> <td> </td> </tr> </table>


##  Future d20 SRD


<table class="index2col"> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/classes"> Classes </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/progress.levels"> Progress Levels </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/cybernetics"> Cybernetics </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/robots"> Robots </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/environments"> Environments </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/scientific.engineering"> Scientific Engineering </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/equipment"> Equipment </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/starships"> Starships </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/expanded.skills"> Expanded Skills </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/starting.occupations"> Starting Occupations </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/feats"> Feats </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/traveler.science"> Traveler Science </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/mecha"> Mecha </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/vehicles"> Vehicles </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/mutations"> Mutations </a> </td> <td> <a href="future.d20.srd/xenobiology"> Xenobiology </a> </td> </tr> </table>


##  Arcana d20 SRD


<table class="index2col"> <tr> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/advanced.classes"> Advanced Classes </a> </td> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/occupations"> Occupations </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/creatures"> Creatures </a> </td> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/organizations"> Organizations </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/equipment"> Equipment </a> </td> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/prestige.classes"> Prestige Classes </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/feats"> Feats </a> </td> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/psionics"> Psionics </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/fx.items"> FX Items </a> </td> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/shadowkind"> Shadowkind </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/incantations"> Incantations </a> </td> <td> <a href="arcana.d20.srd/spells"> Spells </a> </td> </tr> </table>


##  d20 Menaces


<table class="index2col"> <tr> <td> <a href="menaces.d20/buying.services"> Buying Services </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="menaces.d20/feats"> Feats </a> </td> </tr> <tr> <td> <a href="menaces.d20/menaces"> Menaces </a> </td> </tr> </table>


##  Simple Bookmark Downloads:

[ Entire Site ](bookmarks/d20resources)

[ Modern d20 SRD ](bookmarks/modern.d20.srd) ( [ Instructions
](bookmarks/index) )

[ Future d20 SRD ](bookmarks/future.d20.srd)

###  Webmaster's Note:

d20resources.com was created with the idea of making playing d20 games easier.
There are tons of incredible rpg books available for reference; I should know,
I (like many of you I would assume) have shelves full of them. The problem is
that with all of this reference material, sometimes it's simply too cumbersome
to have every book on hand and available when I just need a quick rule fast.
Short of memorizing page numbers, I needed a better way to look up rules and
stats so that my players didn't have to wait for me to find something common.

My solution is this website. Right now I'm beginning to run a d20 Modern
campaign via webcam so I'm constantly in front of my computer. Because of
that, I've rebuilt the Modern d20 System Reference Documentation as a series
of web pages, utilizing indexing and cross-linking that a book simply can't
provide. Thanks to the OGL, the central game engine is available to be used in
just such a way. This site will in no way substitute the complete text of any
of the actual books, but for looking up a spell or a weapon it does well in a
pinch. I'm making this tool public as a way of giving back to a community that
I've had the fortune of being a part of for nearly 20 years.

The Modern SRD is just the beginning though. I'd like to combine as many other
OGL systems as time permits to expand the reference library this site can
provide. Ultimately, I'd like this site to be one more resource for the
average gamer to utilize in their games; so they can spend less time digging,
and more time playing.

If you happen to know of an open system that this kind of website could
benefit from, please [ send me a note ](contact) and I'll be happy to take a
look. I'd love to have a variety of reference sites available to users. If
this site has helped you, I'd love to hear from you, and I'd appreciate a kind
word to the members of your group.

I think there comes a time in every gamer's life where they either turn away
from role playing games as a childish endeavour, or embrace them as something
that they'll enjoy for the rest of their lives. For those of us who are
growing older and losing that precious commodity of free time, this site is
for you. Here's to hoping that you'll gain back some of that free time and put
it into what's important: playing the game.

-Brendan Quinn 

