---
title: Bookmarks
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/web/20220404193509/http://www.d20resources.com/) > [ Modern d20 SRD](/modern.d20) > Bookmarks

##  Navigating d20resources.com with the Downloadable Bookmarks

d20resources.com was made to be a simple, fast and easy to use d20 HTML
resource. However, due to the large amounts of data available, making a
traditional website with regular navigation is a difficult task. To solve this
problem we have done two things. We have made navigation in the form of folder
structure available at the top of each page and in combination with your back
button the site will be easily useable.

Secondly we offer another solution to help you get the most use out of this
site; downloadable bookmarks. We have made these bookmarks to reflect the site
structure and navigation - making it even easier and faster for you to
navigate to the information you need.

###  Downloading and Installing d20resources.com Bookmarks

While you can use these bookmarks in any browser, we highly recommend . It is
by far the most superior browser available and it's free to download and use.

Note: These instructions may or may not work with your browser version.

Choose your preferred method of instruction:

  * Complete Walkthrough with Text Instructions 
  * Advanced User Instructions 

  
  

###  Complete Walkthrough with Text Instructions

**Step 1**  
[ Click here ](/bookmarks/modern.d20.srd) to download the d20resources.com
Bookmarks zip file.

Either save the zip file to a new folder on your hard drive or use another
already existing folder. Either way, remember where you saved this file.

For reference the file name is " **modern.d20.srd.zip** ". If you forget where
you saved it, you can search your computer for that file.

_Tip: Personally, I prefer to have a folder called "temp_downloads" on my hard
drive for just these kinds of downloads. That way it is easy to find and
remove the zip file after I've extracted the content._

**Step 2**  
**Unzip the file** using your unzipping program of choice (recommend; [ WinZip](https://web.archive.org/web/20220404193509/http://www.winzip.com/) or [StuffIt ](https://web.archive.org/web/20220404193509/http://www.stuffit.com/)
.)

**Extract the files** to a new folder in the same directory or a new folder on
your hard drive; your choice. Just remember where you saved it.

_Tip: You could make a new folder in your preferred browser's directory, as
you will need to save this folder for continued use._

**Step 3**  
Open up your preferred browser.

**Firefox users** : select **Bookmarks** , then select **Manage Bookmarks** .
Next select **Tools** , **Import** and navigate to the folder where you saved
the extracted file to.

**IE users** : select **File** , then select **Organize Favorites** . Next
select **Import and Export** and click **Next** , **Import Favorites** ,
**Import from File or Address** , and press the browse button and navigate the
folders to the location where you saved the extracted file to.

**Step 4**  
Now select the file named " **modern.d20.srd.html** " and press Okay or Next.
IE users need to press Finish to complete this process.

The new folder will now appear in your bookmarks or favorites list.

**Step 5**  
To get the most out of your new bookmarks you will want to open up the Sidebar
or Explorer bar.

**Firefox users** : To open up the sidebar select **View** , **Show/Hide** ,
and select **Sidebar** . Or simply press F9.

**IE users** : To open up the Explorer bar select **View** , **Explorer Bar**
, **Favorites** . Or Control+I.

Using these bookmarks you can now navigate d20resources with easy of use. The
bookmarks are made with the exact site structure so you will have no problem
finding exactly what you want when you need it. > ###  Advanced User Instructions > > **Firefox users:** > >   1. [ Click here ](/bookmarks/modern.d20.srd) to download the > d20resources.com Bookmarks zip file (named "modern.d20.srd.zip"). >   2. Save the zip file to your hard drive. Open and extract. >   3. In your browser, select Tools, Import, navigate to the extracted folder > and select "modern.d20.srd.html". >   4. Press Okay and now the bookmarks are available for use. >   5. In your browser select View, Show/Hide and Sidebar. Or press F9. >   6. Use the bookmarks in the sidebar to navigate the site. > >  **IE users:** > >   1. [ Click here ](/bookmarks/modern.d20.srd) to download the > d20resources.com Bookmarks zip file (named "modern.d20.srd.zip"). >   2. Save the zip file to your hard drive. Open and extract. >   3. In your browser, select File, Import and Export and follow through the > steps using "modern.d20.srd.html" as the import file. >   4. After pressing Finish the bookmarks are available for use. >   5. In your browser select View, Explorer Bar, Favorites. Or press > Control+I >   6. Use the bookmarks in the explorer bar to navigate the site. >

  

