---
title: Radiation Sickness
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Environments](/future.d20.srd/environments) > Radiation Sickness

## Radiation Sickness

Radiation can be naturally or artificially produced. All stars produce
radiation in some variety, and planets closer to these stars typically suffer
more severe effects than worlds farther away. Many starships and other pieces
of technology incorporate radioactive parts and fuel cells that can flood an
area with harmful radiation when ruptured or exposed. Ancient alien
civilizations might leave behind powerful artifacts that emit harmful
radiation. Whether the source of the radiation is natural or artificial, any
character in an environment rich with radiation may suffer some negative
effects for exposure.

When characters are exposed to radiation, they may be afflicted with radiation
sickness. Radiation sickness functions exactly like exposure to any other
disease, following the normal rules for diseases. The Fortitude save DC and
the effects of radiation sickness vary with the dose of radiation to which a
creature is exposed. Radiation exposure has five degrees: mild, low, moderate,
high, and severe. To determine the degree of exposure, start with the type of
exposure: either an irradiated area (such as the area near a nuclear
explosion, after the fact, or a lab that has been flooded with radioactive
gas), or a specific source of radiation (such as a lump of radioactive
material). Then consult Table: Radiation Exposure to determine the degree of
exposure based on the total time of exposure within a given 24-hour period
(rounding up).


<table> <tr><th colspan="6">Table: Radiation Exposure</th></tr> <tr><th> </th><th colspan="5">————————— Time of Exposure (Minimum) ————————</th></tr> <tr><th>Situation</th><th>1 round</th><th>1 minute</th><th>10 minutes</th><th>1 hour</th><th>1 day</th></tr> <tr><th colspan="6" style="text-align: left">Character in irradiated area:</th></tr> <tr><td>Lightly irradiated</td><td>mild</td><td>mild</td><td>mild</td><td>mild</td><td>low</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Moderately irradiated</td><td>mild</td><td>mild</td><td>low</td><td>low</td><td>moderate</td></tr> <tr><td>Highly irradiated</td><td>low</td><td>low</td><td>moderate</td><td>moderate</td><td>high</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Severely irradiated</td><td>moderate</td><td>moderate</td><td>high</td><td>hig</td><td>severe</td></tr> <tr><th colspan="6" style="text-align: left">Character exposed to radiation source:</th></tr> <tr><td>Lightly radioactive materials</td><td>mild</td><td>mild</td><td>low</td><td>low</td><td>low</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Moderately radioactive materials</td><td>low</td><td>low</td><td>moderate</td><td>moderate</td><td>moderate</td></tr> <tr><td>Highly radioactive materials</td><td>moderate</td><td>moderate</td><td>high</td><td>high</td><td>high</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Severely radioactive materials</td><td>high</td><td>high</td><td>severe</td><td>severe</td><td>severe</td></tr> </table>


The degree of the exposure determines the severity of the radiation sickness,
as indicated on Table: Radiation Sickness. At low levels, radiation sickness
is a slow disease. Often, a sick character suffers no severe short-term
effects. This is reflected in the fact that even with a failed Fortitude save,
the character might not suffer any Constitution loss.


<table> <tr><th colspan="4">Table: Radiation Sickness</th></tr> <tr><th>Degree of Exposure</th><th>Fortitude Save DC</th><th>Incubation Period</th><th>Initial and Secondary Damage</th></tr> <tr><td>Mild</td><td>12</td><td>1 day</td><td>1d4–2 Con*</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Low</td><td>15</td><td>4d6 hours</td><td>1d6–2&lt; Con*</td></tr> <tr><td>Moderate</td><td>18</td><td>3d6 hours</td><td>1d6–1 Con*</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>High</td><td>21</td><td>2d6 hours</td><td>1d6 Con</td></tr> <tr><td>Severe</td><td>24</td><td>1d6 hours</td><td>2d6 Con</td></tr> <tr><td colspan="4" style="font-size:.8em; text-align: left">* Minimum damage 0 Con.</td></tr> </table>


### Treating Radiation Sickness

Radiation sickness is considered a treatable disease that can be cured using
the “treat disease” aspect of the Treat Injury skill. Treating radiation
sickness requires a medical kit. Advanced medicine (such as neutrad) and
advanced technology (including nanites and cybernetic implants) can also
eliminate radiation sickness or obviate its harmful effects.

