---
title: Ash Wraith
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Creatures ](/arcana.d20.srd/creatures) > Ash Wraith

##  Ash Wraith

Ash wraiths speak whatever languages they spoke in life.

They typically stand between 5 and 6 feet tall. Because they’re incorporeal,
they have no weight.

###  Species Traits

Ash wraiths have the following traits:

Undead: Undead are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease,
necromantic effects, and mind-affecting effects. They are not subject to
critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain,
or effects of massive damage, or any effect requiring a Fortitude save unless
the effect also works on objects or is harmless. They may be healed by
application of negative energy (such as an inflict light wounds spell). They
are destroyed if reduced to 0 hit points or less.

Incorporeal (Ex): An ash wraith can be harmed only by other incorporeal
creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, and spells, spell-like abilities, and
supernatural abilities. It is immune to nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit
by spells or magic weapons, it has a 50% chance to ignore damage from a
corporeal source (except for force effects, such as magic missile, or attacks
made with ghost touch weapons). It can pass through solid objects at will, but
not force effects (such as a wall of force). Its attacks ignore natural armor,
armor, and shields, although deflection bonuses and force effects (such as
mage armor) work normally against it.

An ash wraith moves silently and cannot be heard with Listen checks. It has no
Strength score, so its Dexterity modifier applies both to its melee and ranged
attacks. Nonvisual senses, such as blindsight and scent, do not function
against an ash wraith. An ash wraith cannot be tripped or grappled by a
corporeal attacker.

Burning Touch (Ex): The touch of an ash wraith deals 3d6 points of fire
damage, and creatures hit by an ash wraith must succeed at a Reflex save (DC
15) or catch on fire.

Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by an ash wraith’s burning touch is immolated
and reduced to a pile of ash that rises as an ash wraith in 1d4 rounds. Spawn
are under the command of the ash wraith that created them and remain enslaved
until its death. They do not possess any of the abilities they had in life.

Unnatural Aura (Su): Both wild and domesticated animals can sense the
unnatural presence of an ash wraith at a distance of 30 feet. They will not
willingly approach nearer than that and panic if forced to do so; they remain
panicked as long as they are within that range.

Fear of Daylight (Ex): Ash wraiths exposed to natural sunlight are panicked
(no save). A panicked ash wraith flees from the sunlight as fast as possible;
it can defend normally but cannot attack while exposed to natural sunlight.

Ash Wraith: CR 6; Medium undead; HD 6d12; hp 39; Mas —; Init +7 (+3 Dex, +4
Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (good); Defense 15, touch 15,
flat-footed 12 (+3 Dex, +2 deflection); BAB +3; Grap +3; Atk +6 melee (3d6
fire, burning touch); Full Atk +6 melee (3d6 fire, burning touch); FS 5 ft. by
5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, burning touch, spawn, unnatural
aura, fear of daylight; AL evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0;
Str —, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15.

Skills: Hide +12, Intimidate +11, Listen +13, Read/Write

Language (up to any three), Search +9, Sense Motive +11,

Speak Language (up to any three), Spot +13.

Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 7–12 HD (Medium).

