---
title: Demonic Auto
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Creatures ](/arcana.d20.srd/creatures) > Demonic Auto

##  Demonic Auto

The demonic auto does not speak. It has the normal height and weight of the
automobile it most closely resembles.

###  Species Traits

Demonic autos have the following traits:

Construct: Demonic autos are immune to mind-influencing effects and to poison,
sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any effect that
requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on objects or is
harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability
damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.

Outsider Traits: While they are technically constructs, demonic autos are
animated by a fell presence from beyond Shadow. They gain skills and feats as
if they were outsiders, and they have an Intelligence score.

Damage Reduction 20/+1 (Ex): A demonic auto ignores the first 20 points of
damage dealt by a nonmagical weapon.

Vehicle Movement: The demonic car moves as a vehicle, not as a character. It
has a top speed of 320 squares at character scale (32 squares at chase scale).
It maneuvers as a vehicle, using its Drive score, and it must choose a speed
category (alley, street, highway, or all-out speed) at the beginning of each
action. The demonic auto’s speed category may increase its Defense and
penalize skill checks.

No Limbs: The demonic auto has no limbs and thus can’t grapple, nor can it
manipulate or throw an object. However, it can open and close its car doors,
hood, or trunk rapidly to make a slam attack.

Trample (Ex): The demonic auto can trample smaller creatures by running over
them. The demonic auto’s trample attack deals 2d6+9 points of damage if
traveling at alley speed and 4d6+9 points of damage at higher speeds. A
successful Reflex save (DC 23) halves the damage. The demonic auto takes this
damage as well, but its damage reduction applies.

Repairable: Demonic autos cannot heal damage on their own but can be repaired
using the Repair skill. A successful Repair check (DC 30) heals 1d10 points of
damage, and each check represents 1 hour of work. A demonic auto can repair
itself.

Darkvision (Ex): Demonic autos can see in the dark up to 120 feet. Darkvision
is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and demonic
auros can function with no light at all.

Demonic Auto: CR 13; Huge construct; HD 15d10+40; hp 102; Mas —; Init +1; Spd
400 ft. (320 squares as vehicle); Defense 24, touch 9, flat-footed 23 (–2
size, +1 Dex, +15 natural); BAB +11; Grap —; Atk +15 melee (1d6+9, slam); Full
Atk +15/+10/+5 melee (1d6+6, slam); FS 10 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
construct, outsider traits, damage reduction 20/+1, vehicle movement, no
limbs, trample (2d6+9 alley speed or 4d6+9 at higher speeds), repairable,
darkvision 120 ft.; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0;
Str 23, Dex 13, Con —, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 5.

Skills: Bluff +15, Drive +21, Hide +3, Navigate +18, Repair +10, Sense Motive
+18, Spot +18.

Feats: Drive-By Attack, Force Stop, Vehicle Dodge, Vehicle Expert.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 16–25 HD (Huge); 26–45 (Gargantuan).

Advanced Demonic Auto (Semi Truck): CR 16; Gargantuan construct; HD 26d10+80;
hp 223; Mas —; Init +1; Spd 400 ft. (320 squares as vehicle); Defense 26,
touch 7, flatfooted 25 (–4 size, +1 Dex, +19 natural); BAB +18; Grap —; Atk
+25 melee (1d8+15, slam); Full Atk +25/+20/+15/+10 melee (1d8+10, slam); FS 10
ft. by 30 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, outsider traits, damage reduction
20/+1, vehicle movement, no limbs, trample (DC 33; 2d8+15 at alley speed or
4d8+15 at higher speeds), repairable, darkvision 120 ft.; AL chaos, evil; SV
Fort +10, Ref +9, Will +10; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 13, Con —, Int 10, Wis
10, Cha 5.

Skills: Bluff +22, Drive +32, Hide +10, Intimidate +19, Navigate +25, Repair
+25, Sense Motive +25, Spot +29.

Feats: Drive-By Attack, Great Fortitude, Force Stop, Iron Will, Vehicle Dodge,
Vehicle Expert, Weapon Focus (slam).

Possessions: Flame job (see Chapter Four: Magic Items).

