---
title: Drow
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Drow speak, read, and write Elven, a beautiful language they’ve corrupted with
their own vile idioms and inflections.

Many drow also understand one or more local languages. Particularly
intelligent drow also speak, read, and write any of the following Shadow
languages: Abyssal, Aquan, Draconic, Gnome, Goblin, and Undertongue.

###  Species Traits

Drow have the following traits:

Darkvision (Ex): Drow can see in the dark up to 120 feet. Darkvision is black
and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and drow can function
with no light at all.

Light Blindness (Ex): Abrupt exposure to bright light (such as sunlight or a
daylight spell) blinds a drow for 1 round. In addition, drow take a –1
circumstance penalty on all attack rolls, saves, and checks while operating in
bright light.

Spell Immunities: Drow are immune to sleep spells and effects, and they gain a
+2 species bonus on saves against Enchantment spells or effects. They also
gain a +2 species bonus on Will saves against spells and spell-like abilities.

Spell Resistance (Ex): A drow gains Spell Resistance equal to 11 + her
character level (if any).

Skill Bonuses: Drow gain a +2 species bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot
checks. A drow who merely passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door
is entitled to a Search check (as a free action) to notice it as if she were
actively looking for the door.

Bonus Feat: Drow receive Archaic Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.

Drow: CR 2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8–1; hp 3; Mas 8; Init +1; Spd
30 ft.; Defense 11, touch 11, flat-footed 10 (+1 Dex); BAB +0; Grap +0; Atk +0
melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/19–20, machete); Full
Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/19–20, machete)
or +1 ranged (1 plus poison, shuriken); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
darkvision 120 ft., light blindness, spell immunities, SR 11; AL varies; SV
Fort –1, Ref +1, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 13, Con 8, Int 13, Wis 11,
Cha 12.

Skills: Craft (chemical) +3, Hide +3, Listen +2, Move Silently +3, Read/Write
Elven, Read/Write Language (any one), Search +4, Speak Elven, Speak Language
(any one), Spot +2.

Feat: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Personal Firearms Proficiency.

Possessions: Machete, 6 spider-shaped shuriken (coated with blue vitriol
poison*), casual clothes, cell phone, flash goggles (negates light blindness
when worn).

*Blue vitriol poison: Injury; Fortitude save (DC 12) negates; initial and secondary 1d2 Con. 

Advancement: By character class.

Drow Fast Hero 2: CR 4; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 2d8; hp 12; Mas 10;
Init +3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 17, touch 17, flat-footed 14 (+3 Dex, +4 class);
BAB +1; Grap +0; Atk +0 melee (1d3–1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee
(1d6–1/19–20, machete); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3–1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or
+0 melee (1d6–1/19–20, machete) or +5 ranged (2d6, Glock 17) or +4 ranged
(1d4/19–20 plus poison, hand crossbow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
darkvision 120 ft., light blindness, spell immunities, SR 13; AL varies; SV
Fort +0, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 1; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 13,
Cha 12.

Skills: Drive +7, Hide +8, Knowledge (streetwise) +7, Listen +6, Move Silently
+8, Read/Write Elven, Read/Write Language (any three), Search +6, Sleight of
Hand +8, Speak Elven, Speak Language (any three), Spot +6, Tumble +8.

Feat: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Defensive Martial Arts, Personal Firearms
Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Talent (Fast Hero): Evasion.

Possessions: Machete, Glock 17 (9mm autoloader), 3 box magazines of 9mm
ammunition (for Glock 17), hand crossbow with 12 bolts (coated with blue
vitriol poison*), casual clothes, cell phone, flash goggles (negates light
blindness when worn).

*Blue vitriol poison: Injury; Fortitude save (DC 12) negates; initial and secondary 1d2 Con. 

