---
title: Elf
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Elves speak, read, and write Elven. Many also take the time to learn one or
more local languages. Particularly intelligent elves also know one or more
Shadow languages, including any of the following: Draconic, Gnoll, Goblin,
Gnome, Orc, and Sylvan.

###  Species Traits

Elves have the following traits:

Low-Light Vision (Ex): Elves can see twice as far as a human in starlight,
moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They
retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

Spell Immunities: Elves are immune to sleep spells and effects, and they gain
a +2 species bonus on saves against Enchantment spells or effects.

Skill Bonuses: Elves gain a +2 species bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot
checks. An elf who merely passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door
is entitled to a Search check to notice it as if she were actively looking for
the door.

Bonus Feat: Elves gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency.

Elf: CR 1/2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8–1; hp 3; Mas 8; Init +1; Spd
30 ft.; Defense 11, touch 11, flatfooted 10 (+1 Dex); BAB +0; Grap +0; Atk +0
melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/18–20, sword cane);
Full Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/18–20,
sword cane) or +1 ranged (1d8, compound bow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.;
SQ low-light vision, spell immunities; AL varies; SV Fort –1, Ref +3, Will +0;
AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 13, Con 8, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 10.

Skills: Hide +3, Listen +2, Move Silently +3, Read/Write Elven, Search +2,
Speak Elven, Spot +2, Survival +2.

Feat: Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Point Blank Shot.

Possessions: Sword cane, compound bow, casual clothes (in urban areas) or
fatigues (in rural areas).

Advancement: By character class.

Elf Charismatic Hero 4/Arcane Arranger 1: CR 5; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind);
HD 4d6 plus 1d6; hp 19; Mas 10; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 14,
flat-footed 11 (+3 Dex, +1 class); BAB +2; Grap +1; Atk +1 melee (1d3–1
nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +1 melee (1d3 electricity plus paralysis, stun
gun) or +5 ranged (2d6, SITES M9); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3–1 nonlethal, unarmed
strike) or +1 melee (1d3 electricity plus paralysis, stun gun) or +5 ranged
(2d6, SITES M9); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ low-light vision, spell
immunities, word on the street; AL varies; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +4; AP 2;
Rep +5; Str 8, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 15.

Skills: Bluff +11, Computer Use +4, Diplomacy +9, Disguise +11, Gather
Information +9, Intimidate +9, Knowledge (arcane lore) +9, Knowledge (current
events) +9, Knowledge (popular culture) +9, Knowledge (streetwise) +4, Listen
+2, Read/Write Elven, Read/Write Language (any two), Research +4, Search +2,
Sense Motive +2, Speak Elven, Speak Language (any two), Spot +2.

Feat: Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Deceptive, Iron Will, Point Blank Shot,
Precise Shot, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Talents (Charismatic Hero): Charm, coordinate.

Possessions: Stun gun, SITES M9 (9mm autoloader), 3 box magazines of 9mm
ammunition (for SITES M9), casual clothes, PDA, cell phone, compass, disguise
kit.

