---
title: Grendelspawn
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Grendelspawn hiss and growl but seem to have no language of their own.

###  Species Traits

Grendelspawn have the following traits:

Acid Spit (Ex): Grendelspawn can spit acid up to 20 feet away as a ranged
touch attack; if the acid hits, it deals 2d6 points of acid damage per round
until it’s washed off with at least a gallon of water (a full-round action) or
until 1 minute passes. A grendelspawn hunter can spit acid twice per day; a
grendelspawn queen can spit acid at will.

Rage (Ex): A grendelspawn that takes damage in combat flies into a berserk
rage the following round, clawing and biting madly until either it or its
opponent is dead. An enraged grendelspawn gains +4 Strength and +4
Constitution, and it suffers a –2 penalty to Defense. The creature cannot
begin or end its rage voluntarily.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows the grendelspawn to detect approaching
enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by scent.

Keen Sight (Ex): Grendelspawn have darkvision with a range of 60 feet and low-
light vision.

Grendelspawn Hunter

Hunters tend to travel in small packs of three to six. Though only marginally
intelligent, they often display the cunning common to many predators.
Grendelspawn Hunter: CR 6; Medium magical beast; HD 9d10+27; hp 76; Mas 17;
Init +2; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 18, touch 12, flat-footed 16 (+2
Dex, +6 natural); BAB +9; Grap +14; Atk +14 melee (1d6+5, bite) or +11 ranged
touch (2d6, acid spit); Full Atk +14 melee (1d4+5, 2 claws), +12 melee (1d6+2,
bite) or +11 ranged touch (2d6, acid spit); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
acid spit (2/day), rage, scent, keen sight; AL queen, master; SV Fort +9, Ref
+8, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20, Dex 15, Con 17, Int 3, Wis 12, Cha 11.

Skills: Climb +13, Listen +6, Spot +6, Survival +5.

Feats: Combat Reflexes, Multiattack, Track.

Rage (Ex): When raging, a grendelspawn hunter gains 18 hit points. Its other
statistics change as follows: Mas 21; Defense 16, touch 10, flat-footed 14;
Grap +16; Atk +16 melee (1d6+7, bite); Full Atk +16 melee (1d4+7, 2 claws),
+14 melee (1d6+3, bite); SV Fort +11; Str 24, Con 21.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 10–15 HD (Medium); 16–27 HD (Large).

Grendelspawn Queen

Grendelspawn queens are generally solitary, although sometimes a small cluster
of them will cooperate long enough to protect a joint clutch of eggs. They
have a ruthless intellect devoted solely to the protection of their progeny.

The grendelspawn queen gains the following additional special qualities:

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a grendelspawn queen must hit with
its tentacle slam. If it gets a hold, it can constrict (see below).

Constrict (Ex): A grendelspawn queen deals automatic tentacle damage with a
successful grapple check against creatures smaller than itself.

Grendelspawn Queen: CR 12; Huge magical beast; HD 14d10+70; hp 147; Mas 21;
Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 22, touch 8, flat-footed 22 (–2 size, +14
natural); BAB +14; Grap +30; Atk +20 melee (2d6+12, bite) or +12 ranged touch
(2d6, acid spit); Full Atk +20 melee (2d4+8, 2 claws), +18 melee (2d6+4,
bite), +18 melee (1d6+4, 2 tentacle slams) or +12 ranged touch (2d6, acid
spit); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ acid spit (at will), rage,
improved grab, constrict, scent, keen sight; AL eggs; SV Fort +14, Ref +9,
Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 15.

Skills: Hide –8, Intimidate +15, Listen +14, Spot +14.

Feats: Blind-Fight, Combat Expertise, Frightful Presence, Multiattack, Power
Attack.

Rage (Ex): When raging, a grendelspawn queen gains 28 hit points. Her other
statistics change as follows: Mas 25; Defense 20, touch 6, flat-footed 20;
Grap +32; Atk +22 melee (2d6+15, bite); Full Atk +22 melee (2d4+10, 2 claws),
+20 melee (2d6+5, bite), +20 melee (1d6+5, 2 tentacle slams); SV Fort +16; Str
30, Con 25.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 15–32 HD (Huge); 33–42 HD (Gargantuan).

