---
title: Leechwalker
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Creatures ](/arcana.d20.srd/creatures) > Leechwalker

##  Leechwalker

###  Species Traits

Leechwalkers have the following traits:

All-Around Vision (Ex): A leechwalker can see in all directions at once.
Because of this, it gains a +4 species bonus on Search and Spot checks, and it
cannot be flanked.

Blood Drink (Ex): A leechwalker can drink the blood of a grabbed victim with a
successful grapple check. This attack deals 2d4 points of Constitution damage.

Improved Grab (Ex): If a leechwalker hits an opponent that is its own size or
smaller with a tentacle rake attack, it deals normal damage and attempts to
start a grapple as a free action without provoking an attack of opportunity.
If it successfully grapples, it can use its blood drink ability in the same
round. Thereafter, each successful grapple check automatically deals tentacle
rake damage and blood drink damage.

Vermin Traits: A leechwalker is immune to all mindaffecting effects. It also
has darkvision (60-foot range).

Wounding (Ex): Damage resulting from the leechwalker’s tentacle rake attack is
a wound that bleeds for an additional 3 points of damage every round
thereafter. Multiple wounds result in cumulative blood loss (two successful
rake attacks mean blood lose of 6 points per round, and so on). The bleeding
can be stopped by a successful Treat Injury check (DC 10) or the application
of a cure spell or some other healing spell.

Leechwalker: CR 10; Medium vermin; HD 13d8 +39; hp 97; Mas 16; Init +0; Spd 30
ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 12, touch 10, flat-footed 12 (+2 natural); BAB +9;
Grap +13; Atk +13 melee (1d8+4 plus wounding, tentacle rake); Full Atk +13/+13
melee (1d8+4 plus wounding x?2, tentacle rakes); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
ft.; SQ All-around vision, blood drink, improved grab, vermin traits,
wounding; AL none; SV Fort +11, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 11,
Con 16, Int —, Wis 13, Cha 7.

Skills: Hide +3, Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Search +4, Spot +8, Swim +12.

Feats: None.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 14–26 HD (Medium); 27–39 HD (Large).

