---
title: Octopus
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Creatures ](/arcana.d20.srd/creatures) > Octopus

##  Octopus

###  Species Traits

Octopi have the following traits:

Aquatic: Octopi can move in water without making Swim checks and cannot drown
in water.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a normal octopus must hit with its
tentacle attack (which itself deals no damage). If it gets a hold, it
automatically deals bite damage each round the hold is maintained. If a giant
octopus successfully hits with a tentacle slam against a target smaller than
itself, it can deal automatic bite damage each round or it can constrict (see
below).

Constrict (Ex): A giant octopus that succeeds in grappling an opponent smaller
than itself deals 1d4+5 points of damage per round as it constricts. Poison
(Ex): Some small octopi have venomous bites. Bite: Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2
octopus’s Hit Dice + octopus’s Constitution modifier); initial and secondary
1d2 Strength damage.

Ink Cloud (Ex): Both the octopus and giant octopus can emit a cloud of jet-
black ink as a free action. The normal octopus’s ink cloud is a 10-foot cube,
while the giant octopus’s ink cloud fills a 20-foot cube. The cloud provides
total concealment, which the octopus normally uses to escape a losing fight.
All vision within the cloud is obscured.

Jet (Ex): An octopus or giant octopus can jet backward once a round as a full-
round action, at a speed of 200 feet.

Low-Light Vision (Ex): Lizards can see twice as far as a human in starlight,
moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They
retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

Skill Bonuses: Both octopi and giant octopi can change colors and squeeze into
small spaces. They gain a +4 species bonus on Hide checks and a +10 species
bonus on Escape Artist checks.

Bonus Feats: Normal octopi gain the bonus feats Weapon Finesse (bite) and
Weapon Finesse (tentacles).

Octopus: CR 1/6 (1/2 if venomous); Small animal; HD 1/2 d8; hp 2; Mas 11; Init
+3; Spd 5 ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +3
Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap –3; Atk +4 melee (special, tentacles); Full Atk
+4 melee (special, tentacles), –1 melee (1d4, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach
5 ft.; SQ Aquatic, improved grab, poison (DC 10), ink cloud, jet, low-light
vision; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 17,
Con 11, Int 3, Wis 12, Cha 3.

Skills: Escape Artist +13, Hide +7, Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Spot +5.

Feats: Weapon Finesse (bite, tentacles).

Advancement: 1–2 HD (Small); 3–7 HD (Medium).

Giant Octopus: CR 8; Large animal; HD 8d8+8; hp 44; Mas 13; Init +2; Spd 10
ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 11, flatfooted 16 (–1 size, +2 Dex, +7
natural); BAB +6; Grap +15; Atk +10 melee (1d4+7, tentacle slam); Full Atk +10
melee (1d4+5, 8 tentacle slams), +5 melee (1d8+2, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.;
Reach 10 ft.; SQ Aquatic subtype, improved grab, constrict, ink cloud, jet,
low-light vision; AL none; SV Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20,
Dex 15, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 3.

Skills: Escape Artist +12, Hide +2, Listen +5, Move Silently +4, Spot +5.

Feats: None.

Advancement: 9–12 HD (Large); 13–24 HD (Huge); 25–42 (Gargantuan).

