---
title: Skunk Ape
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Creatures ](/arcana.d20.srd/creatures) > Skunk Ape

##  Skunk Ape

Skunk apes speak their own language, which has no written form. They may read,
write, and speak a number of additional languages equal to their Intelligence
bonus (if any).

###  Species Traits

Skunk apes have the following traits:

Stench (Ex): Skunk apes exude a stench reminiscent of rotting vegetation,
ammonia, and decay. When frightened or angry, they can intensify this odor
such that all creatures within 30 feet of the skunk ape must succeed at a
Fortitude save (DC 12) or be nauseated for 2d6 rounds. A nauseated creature
may take only a single move action per turn and may not perform actions
requiring concentration or attention. Skunk apes are immune to their own
stench but not to the stench of other creatures.

Woodland Stride (Ex): The oily fur of the skunk ape allows it to pass through
any sort of undergrowth (thorn bushes, briars, cranberry bogs, and other
overgrown areas) at normal speed.

Darkvision (Ex): Skunk apes can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and skunk apes
can function with no light at all.

Bonus Feat: Skunk apes gain the bonus feat Alertness.

Skunk Ape: CR 1/2; Medium monstrous humanoid; HD 1d8; hp 4; Mas 11; Init +1;
Spd 30 ft.; Defense 13, touch 11, flatfooted 12 (+1 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1;
Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, claw); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +2
ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ stench, woodland stride, darkvision
60 ft.; SV Fort +0, Ref +3, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 11, Int
8, Wis 8, Cha 8.

Skills: Hide +5, Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Speak Skunk Ape, Spot +5.

Feat: Alertness, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Advancement: By character class.

Skunk Ape Dedicated Hero 3/Acolyte 2: CR 5; Medium monstrous humanoid; HD
3d6+9 plus 2d8+6; hp 37; Mas 16; Init +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd
30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 14, flat-footed 15 (+1 Dex, +2 natural, +3 class);
BAB +4; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d4+1, claw) or +5 ranged (1d4, sling); Full
Atk +5 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +5 ranged (1d4, sling) or +5 ranged touch
(special, net); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ stench, woodland stride,
darkvision 60 ft., divine spells, turn or rebuke undead 2/day; AL good; SV
Fort +8, Ref +4, Will +7; AP 2; Rep +3; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 16, Int 10, Wis
14, Cha 8. Skills: Concentration +7, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) +6,
Listen +7, Read/Write Language (any one), Sense Motive +8, Speak Language (any
one), Speak Skunk Ape, Spellcraft +4, Spot +7, Survival +7, Treat Injury +4.

Feat: Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Heroic Surge (2/day), Improved
Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Track.

Talents (Dedicated Hero): Empathy, skill emphasis (Survival).

Spells (4/4): 0—cure minor wounds, detect magical aura, read magic,
resistance; 1st—bless, cure light wounds, mending, shield of faith.

Possessions: Sling with 20 bullets, net, holy symbol (totem necklace),
shaman’s bag (treat as medical kit).

