---
title: Spirit
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
###  Species Traits

All spirits have the following capabilities. Particular types of spirits may
have additional abilities.

Undead: Spirits are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease,
necromantic effects, and mind-affecting effects. They are not subject to
critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain,
or effects of massive damage, or any effect requiring a Fortitude save unless
the effect also works on objects or is harmless. They may be healed by
application of negative energy (such as an inflict light wounds spell). They
are destroyed if reduced to 0 hit points or less (but may be rejuvenated, as
noted below).

Incorporeal (Ex): A spirit can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures,
+1 or better magic weapons, and spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural
abilities. It is immune to nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit by spells or
magic weapons, it has a 50% chance to ignore damage from a corporeal source
(except for force effects, such as magic missile, or attacks made with ghost
touch weapons). It can pass through solid objects at will, but not force
effects (such as a wall of force). Its attacks ignore natural armor, armor,
and shields, although deflection bonuses and force effects (such as mage
armor) work normally against it. A spirit moves silently and cannot be heard
with Listen checks (unless it wished to be heard). It has no Strength score,
so its Dexterity modifier applies both to its melee and ranged attacks.
Nonvisual senses, such as blindsight and scent, do not function against an ash
wraith. A spirit cannot be tripped or grappled by a corporeal attacker, nor
can a spirit make trip or grapple attacks.

Bonuses to Defense: A spirit gains a deflection bonus to its Defense equal to
its Charisma modifier (minimum +1). Although it may appear to wear armor and
other forms of protection, a spirit receives no natural armor bonus or
equipment bonus to Defense.

Corrupting Touch (Su): A spirit that hits a living target with its incorporeal
touch attack deals 1d6 points of damage. The spirit adds its Dexterity
modifier to the attack roll.

Invisibility (Ex): Spirits are naturally invisible but may be detected by
spells that detect or reveal invisible creatures and objects. A spirit may
reveal itself willingly, but normally does so only during the night.

Rejuvenation (Su): In most cases, it’s difficult to destroy a spirit through
simple combat; the “destroyed” spirit will often restore itself in 2d4 days.
As a rule, the only way to get rid of a spirit forever is to determine the
reason for its existence and set right whatever prevents it from resting in
peace. The exact means varies with each spirit and may require use of the
Research skill.

Turn Resistance (Ex): A spirit has +4 turn resistance. If a spirit is turned
but cannot flee, it is instead destroyed. However, it may still rejuvenate
(see above).

Imprisonment (Ex): Spirits are bound to a particular place. This place is
usually a dwelling, building, or similarly contained area. Within this area,
they may use their abilities as normal. In addition, some spirits may only be
present at particular times (an anniversary of a death, or only between
midnight and dawn). They may be released from this imprisonment by particular
actions (giving their physical body a proper funeral, restoring a lost or
stolen item, getting vengeance on those responsible for their death, and so
forth). A spirit may be unaware of the nature of its release, or may be
unwilling to divulge those details.

Darkvision (Ex): Spirits can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and spirits can
function with no light at all.

Skill Bonuses: Spirits receive a +8 species bonus on Hide, Listen, Search, and
Spot checks.

Animating Spirit (Poltergeist)

An animating spirit can move and throw objects around.

Telekinesis (Su): An animating spirit can use telekinesis as an attack action,
at will (as a 10th-level Mage). Creatures subjected to the telekinesis attack
are entitled to a Will save (DC 15 + spirit’s Intelligence modifier) to
resist.

Animating Spirit (Poltergeist): CR 2; Medium undead; HD 1d12; hp 6; Mas —;
Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 11,
touch 11, flat-footed 11 (+1 deflection); BAB +0; Grap —; Atk +0 melee touch
(1d6, corrupting touch); Full Atk +0 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, corrupting touch,
telekinesis (DC 15), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn resistance,
imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will
+2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str —, Dex 11, Con —, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 10.

Skills: Bluff +4, Diplomacy +4, Hide +12, Intimidate +5, Listen +12,
Read/Write Language (any one), Search +12, Sense Motive +4, Speak Language
(any one), Spot +12.

Feat: Improved Initiative.

Advancement: 2–3 HD (Medium); 4–7 HD (Large).

Frightful Spirit (Apparition)

A frightful spirit’s twisted features horrify all who behold it.

Horrific Appearance (Su): Any living creature within 60 feet that views the
frightful spirit must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + spirit’s Hit Dice +
spirit’s Charisma modifier) or immediately suffer 1d4 points of temporary
Strength damage, 1d4 points of temporary Dexterity damage, and 1d4 points of
temporary Constitution damage. A creature that successfully saves against this
effect cannot be affected by the same spirit’s horrific appearance for one
day.

Frightful Spirit (Apparition): CR 3; Medium undead; HD 2d12; hp 13; Mas —;
Init +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good);
Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +0; Grap —;
Atk +1 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); Full Atk +1 melee touch (1d6,
corrupting touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal,
corrupting touch, horrific appearance (DC 12), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4
turn resistance, imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort
+0, Ref +1, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str —, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha
11. Skills: Bluff +4, Diplomacy +4, Hide +14, Intimidate +5, Listen +14,
Search +14, Sense Motive +6, Spot +14.

Feat: Improved Initiative.

Advancement: 3–5 HD (Medium); 6–9 HD (Large).

Groaning Spirit (Banshee)

A groaning spirit can panic others with its mournful cry.

Frightful Moan (Su): A groaning spirit can moan as an attack action. All
living creatures within a 30-foot spread must succeed at a Will save (DC 10 +
spirit’s Hit Dice + spirit’s Charisma modifier) or become panicked for 2d4
rounds. A panicked creature flees as fast as possible, cowers if unable to get
away, and defends normally (but cannot attack). This is a sonic, necromantic,
mind-affecting fear effect. A creature that successfully saves against the
moan cannot be affected by the same spirit’s moan for one day.

Groaning Spirit: CR 4; Medium undead; HD 3d12; hp 19; Mas —; Init +5 (+1 Dex,
+4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 12, touch 12,
flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +1; Grap —; Atk +2 melee touch
(1d6, corrupting touch); Full Atk +2 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, corrupting touch, frightful
moan (DC 14), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn resistance, imprisonment,
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, Will +4; AP 0; Rep
+0; Str —, Dex 13, Con —, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 12.

Skills: Bluff +6, Diplomacy +6, Hide +14, Intimidate +7, Listen +15, Search
+14, Sense Motive +6, Spot +15.

Feat: Improved Initiative.

Advancement: 4–7 HD (Medium); 8–12 HD (Large).

Possessing Spirit (Haunt)

A possessing spirit can take command of a living physical body.

Possession (Su): Once per round, as an attack action, a possessing spirit can
merge with a living creature and seize control of its body. To use this
ability, the spirit must first enter the target’s fighting space; doing so
does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

The target can resist the spirit’s attempt at possession with a successful
Will save (DC 10 + spirit’s Hit Dice + spirit’s Charisma modifier). If the
save succeeds, the spirit is rebuffed and pushed into an adjacent square. A
target that successfully saves cannot be possessed by that spirit for one day,
and the spirit cannot again enter the target’s fighting space during that
time. If the save fails, the spirit vanishes into the target’s body and takes
control of it. A possessed creature gains the spirit’s Intelligence, Wisdom,
Charisma, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, allegiances, skills, and
feats. The possessed creature retains its Strength, Dexterity, Constitution,
type, hit points, massive damage threshold, grapple check modifier, fighting
space, reach, Reputation bonus, and extraordinary abilities. It loses access
to any spell-like abilities, supernatural abilities, action points, and mental
abilities (including prepared spells and knowledge gained from life
experiences).

While possessing a host creature, the spirit loses its supernatural or
extraordinary abilities except for its turn resistance. The possessed
creature’s original spirit instantly reinstates itself if the possessing
spirit is turned, destroyed, or otherwise dislodged from its host. A
possessing spirit can leave its host as a free action, if it so chooses. Any
attack that deals massive damage on the host’s body allows the host another
Will save to oust the possessing spirit and regain control of its body
(whether or not the massive damage Fortitude save succeeds).

Possessing Spirit: CR 5; Medium undead; HD 5d12; hp 32; Mas —; Init +6 (+2
Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 14, touch
14, flat-footed 12 (+2 Dex, +2 deflection); BAB +2; Grap —; Atk +4 melee touch
(1d6, corrupting touch), Full Atk +4 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, corrupting touch,
possession (DC 17), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn resistance,
imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +1, Ref +3, Will
+6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str —, Dex 15, Con —, Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 14.

Skills: Bluff +8, Diplomacy +8, Hide +17, Intimidate +9, Listen +17, Search
+17, Sense Motive +8, Spot +17.

Feat: Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative.

Advancement: 6–9 HD (Medium); 10–15 HD (Large).

Weakening Spirit (Fetch)

A weakening spirit draws strength from the bodies of living creatures.

Draining Touch (Su): A living creature wounded by the weakening spirit’s
corrupting touch attack must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + spirit’s Hit
Dice +spirit’s Charisma modifier) or suffer 1d4 points of permanent Strength
drain. A creature reduced to 0 Strength by a weakening spirit’s draining touch
dies and rises as a free-willed weakening spirit 24 hours later.

Weakening Spirit: CR 6; Medium undead; HD 4d12; hp 26; Mas —; Init +6 (+2 Dex,
+4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 13, touch 13,
flat-footed 11 (+2 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +1; Grap —; Atk +3 melee (1d6 plus
1d4 Str drain, corrupting touch); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6 plus 1d4 Str drain,
corrupting touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal,
corrupting touch, draining touch (DC 15), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn
resistance, imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +1,
Ref +3, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str —, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13.

Skills: Bluff +7, Diplomacy +7, Hide +16, Intimidate +7, Listen +16, Search
+16, Sense Motive +8, Spot +16.

Feat: Improved Initiative.

Advancement: 5–8 HD (Medium); 9–14 HD (Large).

