---
title: Squid
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Creatures ](/arcana.d20.srd/creatures) > Squid

##  Squid

###  Species Traits

Squid have the following traits:

Aquatic: Squid can move in water without making Swim checks, and they cannot
drown in water.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the squid must hit with its tentacle
arm attack. If it gets a hold, the squid automatically deals bite damage each
round the hold is maintained. Squid and giant squid are treated as one size
category larger for purposes of determining their grapple check bonus. If a
giant squid makes a successful strike with its tentacle rake attack against a
target smaller than itself, it can constrict (see below).

Constrict (Ex): A giant squid deals automatic tentacle damage with a
successful grapple check against creatures smaller than itself.

Ink Cloud (Ex): Both the squid and giant squid can emit a cloud of jet-black
ink as a free action. The squid’s ink cloud fills a 10-foot cube, while the
giant squid’s ink cloud fills a 20-foot cube. The cloud provides total
concealment, which the squid normally uses to escape a losing fight. All
vision within the cloud is obscured.

Jet (Ex): A squid or giant squid can jet backward once per round as a full-
round action. This increases the squid’s speed to 240 feet and the giant
squid’s speed to 320 feet.

Darkvision (Ex): Squid can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black
and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and squid can function
with no light at all.

Bonus Feats: Normal squid (but not giant squid) gain the bonus feats Weapon
Finesse (bite) and Weapon Finesse (tentacles).

Squid: CR 1/6; Small animal; HD 1/2 d8; hp 2; Mas 11; Init +3; Spd swim 60
ft.; Defense 16, touch 14, flat-footed 13 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +2 natural); BAB
+0; Grap –2; Atk +2 melee (special, tentacles); Full Atk +2 melee (special,
tentacles), –3 melee (1d4–2, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ
aquatic, improved grab, ink cloud, jet, darkvision 60 ft.; SV Fort +2, Ref +5,
Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 7, Dex 17, Con 11, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 3.

Skills: Hide +7, Listen +7, Spot +7.

Feats: Weapon Finesse (bite, tentacles).

Advancement: 1 HD (Small); 2–4 HD (Medium); 5–11 HD (Large).

Giant Squid: CR 10; Huge animal; HD 12d8+60; hp 114; Mas 21; Init +0; Spd swim
80 ft.; Defense 17, touch 9, flatfooted 17 (–2 size, +9 natural); BAB +9; Grap
+29; Atk +15 melee (1d6+12, tentacle rake); Full Atk +15 melee (1d6+8, 10
tentacle rakes), +10 melee (2d6+4, bite); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.
(30 ft. with tentacles); SQ aquatic, improved grab, constrict 1d6+8, ink
cloud, jet, darkvision 60 ft.; SV Fort +11, Ref +6, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
26, Dex 11, Con 21, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 2.

Skills: Hide –8, Listen +8, Spot +8.

Feats: None.

Advancement: 13–18 HD (Huge); 19–36 (Gargantuan).

