---
title: Toxyderm
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
###  Species Traits

Regardless of the type of waste that spawned them, toxyderms share the
following traits.

Elemental: As elementals, toxyderms are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis,
and stunning. They are not subject to critical hits, flanking, or the effects
of massive damage. They cannot be raised from the dead.

Breath Weapon (Ex): A toxyderm has a cone-shaped breath weapon that it can use
as an attack action once every 1d4 rounds. The exact length and type of the
breath weapon varies depending on the toxyderm.

Engulf (Ex): A toxyderm can engulf creatures at least one size smaller than
itself as an attack action. It cannot make a slam attack during a round in
which it engulfs. The toxyderm merely has to move over the opponents,
affecting as many as it can cover. Opponents can make attacks of opportunity
against the engulfing toxyderm, but if they do so they are not entitled to a
saving throw. Those who do not attempt attacks of opportunity must succeed at
a Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm’s Hit Dice + toxyderm’s Dexterity
modifier) or be engulfed; on a success, they are pushed back or aside
(opponent’s choice) as the toxyderm moves forward. Engulfed creatures are
automatically considered grappled and take damage from the toxyderm’s slam
attack every subsequent round (no attack roll required).

Darkvision (Ex): A toxyderm can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the toxyderm
can function with no light at all.

Chemical Toxyderm

Acid (Ex): The chemical toxyderm is made of an acid that dissolves organic
material. With each successful slam, the toxyderm deals 2d6 points of acid
damage in addition to normal slam damage. A creature continues to take acid
damage each round until the acid is rinsed off with water.

Breath Weapon (Ex): The chemical toxyderm breathes a 50-foot cone of acid that
deals 15d6 points of damage, or half damage if a Reflex save succeeds (DC 10 +
1/2 toxyderm’s Hit Dice + toxyderm’s Constitution modifier). Unlike the
garbage toxyderm, the chemical toxyderm takes no damage from its own breath
weapon.

Chemical Toxyderm: CR 15; Huge elemental; HD 24d8+120; hp 228; Mas —; Init +0;
Spd 20 ft.; Defense 20, touch 8, flat-footed 20 (–2 size, +12 natural); BAB
+18; Grap +37; Atk +27 melee (2d6+16 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +16 ranged; Full
Atk +27/+22/+17/+12 melee (2d6+16 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +16/+11/+6/+1
ranged; FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ elemental, engulf (DC 22), acid,
breath weapon (DC 27), darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +21, Ref +10, Will
+8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 32, Dex 11, Con 20, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.

Skills: Hide –8, Listen +27, Spot +27, Swim +15.

Feats: Cleave, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude, Lightning Reflexes, Power
Attack.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 25–60 HD (Huge); 61–72 HD (Gargantuan).

Advanced Chemical Toxyderm: CR 26; Gargantuan elemental; HD 64d8+454 (includes
Toughness feats); hp 742; Mas —; Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 20 ft.;
Defense 22, touch 6, flat-footed 22 (–4 size, +16 natural); BAB +48; Grap +75;
Atk +60 melee (2d8+22 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +44 ranged; Full Atk
+60/+55/+50/+45 melee (2d8+22 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +44/+39/+34/+29 ranged;
FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ elemental, engulf (DC 42), acid, breath
weapon (DC 49), darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +42, Ref +23, Will +23; AP
0; Rep +0; Str 40, Dex 11, Con 24, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.

Skills: Hide –12, Listen +56, Spot +56, Swim +41.

Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Great
Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Lightning
Reflexes, Power Attack, Sunder, Toughness (x2), Weapon Focus (slam).

Possessions: None.

Garbage Toxyderm

Disease (Ex): Hantavirus—slam. Fortitude save (DC 14) negates; incubation
period 1 day; initial damage 1d2 Str; secondary damage 1d2 Str (temporary or
permanent) and 1d2 Con (temporary or permanent).

Breath Weapon (Ex): The garbage toxyderm can expel some of its mass in a
50-foot cone. This deals 10d6 points of bludgeoning damage, or half damage if
a Reflex save succeeds (DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm’s Hit Dice + toxyderm’s
Constitution modifier). Each time the toxyderm uses its breath weapon, it
takes 20 points of damage. Furthermore, any creature that takes damage from
the cone must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 14) or contract a disease (see
above).

Garbage Toxyderm: CR 11; Huge elemental; HD 18d8+90; hp 171; Mas —; Init –2;
Spd 20 ft., burrow 10 ft.; Defense 16, touch 6, flat-footed 16 (–2 size, –2
Dex, +10 natural); BAB +13; Grap +30; Atk +20 melee (2d6+13 plus disease,
slam) or +9 ranged; Full Atk +20/+15/+10 melee (2d6+13 plus disease, slam) or
+9/+4/–1 ranged; FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ elemental, engulf (DC
17), disease, breath weapon (DC 24), darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +16,
Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 7, Con 20, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.

Skills: Hide –10, Listen +21, Spot +21, Swim +13.

Feats: Cleave, Great Cleave, Power Attack, Sunder.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 19–40 HD (Huge); 41–54 HD (Gargantuan).

Advanced Garbage Toxyderm: CR 18; Gargantuan elemental; HD 42d8+294; hp 483;
Mas —; Init –2; Spd 20 ft., burrow 10 ft.; Defense 18, touch 4, flat-footed 18
(–4 size, –2 Dex, +14 natural); BAB +32; Grap +57; Atk +41 melee (2d8+19 plus
disease, slam) or +26 ranged; Full Atk +41/+36/+31/+25 melee (2d8+19 plus
disease, slam) or +26/+21/+16/+11 ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.;
SQ elemental, engulf (DC 29), disease, breath weapon (60-foot cone; DC 38),
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +37, Ref +14, Will +16; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
36, Dex 7, Con 24, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.

Skills: Hide –14, Listen +39, Spot +39, Swim +33.

Feats: Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude,
Improved Bull Rush, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Sunder.

Possessions: None.

Nuclear Toxyderm

Radiation (Ex): The area within a quarter-mile of a nuclear toxyderm is
considered highly irradiated (see Radiation Sickness, below), so characters
receive a low exposure to radiation if they remain in the area for less than a
minute and a moderate exposure if they stay longer. If the nuclear toxyderm
hits a creature with a slam attack, that creature receives a severe exposure
to radiation.

Breath Weapon (Ex): The nuclear toxyderm’s breath weapon is a 100-foot cone of
white-hot nuclear slag and fullspectrum radiation. It deals 20d6 points of
damage to all in its path, or half damage if a Reflex save succeeds (DC 10 +
1/2 toxyderm’s Hit Dice + toxyderm’s Constitution modifier). Any creature that
takes damage from the cone also suffers a high exposure to radiation (see the
Radiation Sickness).

Chain Reaction (Su): If the nuclear toxyderm is reduced to 0 or fewer hit
points, it explodes in a blinding flash of light that deals 400 points of
damage to everything (creatures and objects alike) within 400 feet and 100
points of damage to everything within a mile; a successful Reflex save halves
the damage (DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm’s Hit Dice + toxyderm’s Dexterity modifier).
This explosion generally results in a milehigh mushroom cloud and a highly
radioactive crater a quarter-mile across.

Nuclear Toxyderm: CR 20; Gargantuan elemental; HD 30d8+180; hp 305; Init +0;
Spd 30 ft.; Defense 21, touch 6, flat-footed 21 (–4 size, +15 natural); BAB
+22; Grap +47; Atk +32 melee (2d8+19 plus radiation, slam) or +18 ranged; Full
Atk +32/+27/+22/+17 melee (2d8+19 plus radiation, slam) or +18/+13/+8/+3
ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ elemental, radiation, engulf (DC
25), breath weapon (DC 32), chain reaction, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV
Fort +26, Ref +12, Will +12; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 36, Dex 11, Con 24, Int 13, Wis
11, Cha 11.

Skills: Hide –12, Listen +33, Spot +33, Swim +31.

Feats: Cleave, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Iron Will,
Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (slam).

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 31–64 HD (Gargantuan); 65–90 HD (Colossal).

Advanced Nuclear Toxyderm: CR 35; Colossal elemental; HD 90d8+840 (includes
Toughness feats); hp 1,245; Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft.; Defense
22, touch 2, flatfooted 22 (–8 size, +20 natural); BAB +65; Grap +47; Atk +75
melee (4d6+25 plus radiation, slam) or +57 ranged; Full Atk +75/+70/+65/+60
melee (4d6+25 plus radiation, slam) or +57/+52/+47/+42 ranged; FS 30 ft. by 30
ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ elemental, radiation, engulf (DC 55), breath weapon (DC
64), chain reaction, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +26, Ref +12, Will
+12; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 44, Dex 11, Con 28, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 11.

Skills: Hide –16, Listen +75, Spot +75, Swim +75.

Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Great
Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Lightning
Reflexes, Power Attack, Sunder, Toughness (x10), Weapon Focus (slam).

Possessions: None.

