---
title: Urban Wendigo
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
An urban wendigo is generally 8 feet tall and weighs 400 pounds.

###  Species Traits

Wendigos have the following traits:

Rage (Ex): An urban wendigo that takes damage in combat flies into a berserk
rage the following round, clawing and biting madly until either it or its
opponent is dead. An enraged urban wendigo gains +4 Strength and +4
Constitution, and takes a –2 penalty Defense. The creature cannot end its rage
voluntarily.

Rend (Ex): If an urban wendigo hits with both claw attacks, it latches onto
the opponent’s body and tears the flesh. This attack automatially deals an
additional 2d6+9 points of damage.

Ferocity (Ex): An urban wendigo is such a tenacious combatant that it
continues to fight without penalty even while disabled or dying.

Peripheral Invisibility (Su): A side effect of the desolation that created the
urban wendigo in the first place, the urban wendigo gains the benefit of
invisibility, as the spell cast by a 10th-level Mage. By staying out of the
direct, focused vision of city dwellers, the urban wendigo can roam the city
unseen. Unlike the invisibility spell, any character looking in the general
direction of the urban wendigo and taking an attack action to make a Spot
check (DC = the urban wendigo’s Hide check) can see the urban wendigo if the
check succeeds. Once a character sees an urban wendigo, that character is
immune to its peripheral invisibility for 1 hour.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows the urban wendigo to detect approaching
enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by scent.

Low-Light Vision (Ex): Urban wendigos can see twice as far as a human in
starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination.
They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these
conditions.

Skill Bonuses: Urban wendigos gain a +10 species bonus on Balance, Climb,
Jump, and Survival checks.

Urban Wendigo: CR 5; Large giant; HD 6d8+24; hp 51; Mas 19; Init +1; Spd 40
ft.; Defense 17, touch 10, flat-footed 16 (–1 size, +1 Dex, +7 natural); BAB
+4; Grap +14; Atk +9 melee (1d6+6, claw) or +4 ranged; Full Atk +9 melee
(1d6+6, 2 claws), +4 melee (1d6+3, bite) or +4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 10 ft.; SQ rage, rend 2d6+9, ferocity, peripheral invisibility, scent,
low-light vision; AL evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +3, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23,
Dex 13, Con 19, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 6.

Skills: Balance +12, Climb +18, Hide –1, Jump +18, Listen +4, Spot +4,
Survival +14.

Feats: Dodge, Mobility, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Rage (Ex): When raging, the urban wendigo gains 12 hit points. Its other
statistics change as follows: Mas 23; Defense 15, touch 8, flat-footed 14;
Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+8, claw); Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+8, 2 claws), +6
melee (1d6+4, bite); SQ rend 2d6+12; SV Fort +11; Str 27, Con 23; Climb +20,
Jump +20.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: By character class.

Urban Wendigo Fast Hero 3: CR 8; Large giant; HD 6d8+24 plus 3d8+12; hp 76;
Mas 19; Init +2; Spd 45 ft.; Defense 22, touch 14, flat-footed 20 (–1 size, +2
Dex, +7 natural, +4 class); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, claw) or
+7 ranged (1d10/19–20, crossbow); Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, 2 claws), +6
melee (1d6+3, bite) or +7 ranged (1d10/19–20, crossbow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 10 ft.; SQ rage, rend 2d6+9, ferocity, peripheral invisibility, scent,
low-light vision; AL evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +4; AP 1; Rep +1; Str 23,
Dex 14, Con 19, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 6.

Skills: Balance +14, Climb +19, Hide +4, Jump +19, Listen +4, Move Silently
+4, Spot +4, Survival +14.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Dodge, Mobility, Simple Weapons
Proficiency, Spring Attack, Stealthy.

Talents (Fast Hero): Evasion, increased speed.

Rage (Ex): When raging, the urban wendigo gains 18 hit points. Its other
statistics change as follows: Mas 23; Defense 20, touch 12, flat-footed 18;
Grap +18; Atk +13 melee (1d6+8, claw); Full Atk +13 melee (1d6+8, 2 claws), +8
melee (1d6+4, bite); SQ rend 2d6+12; SV Fort +11; Str 27, Con 23; Climb +21,
Jump +21.

Possessions: Crossbow with 12 bolts, battered shopping cart filled with
miscellaneous items.

