---
title: Vrock
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Creatures ](/arcana.d20.srd/creatures) > Vrock

##  Vrock

###  Species Traits

Vrocks have the following traits:

Spores (Ex): A vrock can release masses of spores from its body once every 3
rounds. The spores automatically deal 1d8 points of damage to all creatures
within 5 feet of the vrock. They then penetrate the skin and grow, dealing an
additional 1d2 points of damage each round for 10 rounds. At the end of this
time, the victim is covered with a tangle of viny growths. A delay poison
spell stops the spores’ growth for the duration. Bless, neutralize poison, or
remove disease kills the spores, as does sprinkling the victim with a vial of
holy water.

Stunning Screech (Su): Once per hour, a vrock can emit a piercing screech.
Every creature within a 30-foot radius must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10
+ 1/2 vrock’s Hit Dice + vrock’s Constitution modifier) or be stunned for 1
round.

Dance of Ruin (Su): To use this ability, a group of five or more vrocks join
hands in a circle, dancing wildly and chanting. If they dance for 3 rounds, a
wave of crackling energy flashes outward in a 100-foot radius. All creature
within the radius take 2d20 points of electricity damage (to which vrocks are
immune); a successful Reflex save (DC 15) halves the damage. Forcing the
vrocks to break the circle stops the dance.

Spell-like Abilities: At will—darkness, detect magical aura, displacement,
telekinesis (DC 17). These abilities are as the spells cast by a 10th-level
Mage. The DCs are Intelligence-based.

Psionic Abilities: At will—charm person (DC 12), suggestion (DC 14). These
abilities are as the psionic powers manifested by a 10th-level Telepath. The
DCs are Charismabased.

Summon Vrock (Sp): Once per day, a vrock can attempt to summon another vrock
with a 35% chance of success. Summoned vrock return whence they came after 1
hour. A vrock that has just been summoned cannot use its own summon ability
for 1 hour.

Teleport (Sp): A vrock can teleport itself (plus 50 pounds of objects) to a
specific destination up to 1,000 miles away. This ability is similar to the
teleport incantation except the vrock cannot teleport other creatures, need
not make skill checks to succeed, and does not require any components to
activate the ability. The vrock may teleport as a full-round action, at will.

Immunities: Vrocks are immune to electricity and poison.

Damage Reduction 20/+2 (Ex): A vrock ignores the first 20 points of damage
dealt by any weapon with less than a +2 magic bonus.

Energy Resistance (Ex): Vrocks have acid, cold, and fire resistance 10.

Spell Resistance (Ex): A vrock has spell resistance equal to 12 + the vrock’s
Hit Dice (SR 20 for a normal vrock).

Telepathy (Su): A vrock can communicate telepathically with any creature
within 100 feet that has a language.

Darkvision (Ex): A vrock can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is
black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the vrock can
function with no light at all.

Skill Bonuses: Vrocks gain a +8 species bonus on Listen and Spot checks.

Vrock: CR 9; Large outsider; HD 8d8+24; hp 60; Mas 17; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.,
fly 50 ft. (average); Defense 25, touch 11, flat-footed 23 (–1 size, +2 Dex,
+14 natural); BAB +8; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+4, claw); Full Atk +11
melee (1d8+4, 2 claws), +9 melee (1d6+2, bite), +9 melee (1d4+2, 2 talons); FS
10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ spores, stunning screech (DC 17), dance of
ruin, spell-like abilities, psionic abilities, summon vrock, teleport, immune
to electricity and poison, damage reduction 20/+2, acid resistance 10, cold
resistance 10, fire resistance 10, SR 20, telepathy, darkvision 60 ft.; AL
chaos, evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +8, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 19, Dex 15, Con
17, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12.

Skills: Concentration +14, Hide +9, Knowledge (any one) +12, Listen +13, Move
Silently +13, Search +13, Sense Motive +13, Speak Abyssal, Speak Language (any
two), Spellcraft +12, Spot +12.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Multiattack, Power Attack.

Possessions: None.

Advancement: 9–12 HD (Large); 13–24 HD (Huge).

Advanced Vrock (Vrock Lord): CR 15; Huge outsider; HD 24d8+120; hp 228; Mas
21; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (average); Defense 26, touch 9, flat-
footed 25 (–2 size, +1 Dex, +17 natural); BAB +24; Grap +40; Atk +30 melee
(2d6+8/19–20, claw); Full Atk +30 melee (2d6+8/19–20, 2 claws), +25 melee
(1d8+4/19–20, bite), +25 melee (1d6+4, 2 talons); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach
10 ft.; SQ spores, stunning screech (DC 27), dance of ruin, spell-like
abilities, psionic abilities, summon vrock, teleport, immune to electricity
and poison, damage reduction 20/+2, acid resistance 10, cold resistance 10,
fire resistance 10, SR 36, telepathy, darkvision 60 ft.; AL chaos, evil; SV
Fort +18, Ref +14, Will +15; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 27, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 18, Wis
14, Cha 16.

Skills: Bluff +27, Concentration +29, Hide +17, Intimidate +27, Knowledge (any
one) +28, Listen +26, Move Silently +25, Search +28, Sense Motive +26, Speak
Abyssal, Speak Language (any four), Spellcraft +28, Spot +26, Tumble +25.

Feats: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Cleave, Improved Critical (bite, claw),
Multiattack, Power Attack.

Possessions: None.

