---
title: Wererat (Template)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Wererats retain whatever languages they spoke before they contracted
lycanthropy. They are generally 5 to 6 feet tall and weigh 125 to 150 pounds.

Template Traits

Wererat is a template (usually acquired by contracting lycanthropy, but very
occasionally inherited when two wererats mate) that can be added to any
humanoid creature (referred to hereafter as the character). A wererat uses the
character’s statistics and special qualities in addition to those described
below.

Challenge Rating: Same as the character +2.

Hit Dice: Same as the character plus the dire rat’s base Hit Dice (1d8).

Speed: Same as the character while in humanoid form. In hybrid or rat form,
speed becomes 40 ft., climb 20 ft.

Defense: Same as the character while in humanoid form. In hybrid and animal
form, the creature gains a +1 natural armor bonus to Defense. This bonus does
not stack with other natural armor bonuses.

Base Attack: Same as the character.

Grapple Bonus: Apply modifiers for Strength and size depending on the
lycanthrope’s form.

Attacks: Same as the character while in humanoid form. In hybrid and rat form,
a wererat attacks with its bite, dealing 1d4 points of damage plus its
Strength modifier.

Special Qualities: A wererat retains all the special qualities of the
character and gains the additional special qualities listed below.

Alternate Form (Su): A wererat can assume rat or hybrid form, but its gear is
not absorbed into the new form. The bipedal hybrid form is about 5 feet tall,
with a long tail and thin fur. The limbs are human, but the head looks like a
rat’s. Changing to or from rat or hybrid form is a move action. Upon assuming
either form, the wererat regains hit points as if having rested for a day. A
slain wereat reverts to its humanoid form, although it remains dead. Afflicted
wererats find this ability difficult to control. The rare natural wererat has
full control over this power.

Curse of Lycanthropy (Su): Any humanoid bitten by a wererat’s bite attack (in
rat or hybrid form) must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or contract
lycanthropy.

Damage Reduction 15/Silver (Su): A wererat in rat or hybrid form ignores the
first 15 points of damage dealt by a nonsilver or nonmagical weapon but takes
full damage from silvered weapons or weapons with +1 or better magic bonus.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows a wererat in rat or hybrid form to detect
approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. Rat
Empathy (Ex): A wererat can communciate with rats in any form and gains a +4
species bonus on Diplomacy checks when influencing a rat’s attitude. A
friendly rat understands and heeds simple commands, such “wait,” “watch,”
“flee,” and “attack.”

Darkvision (Ex): In their rat and hybrid forms, wererats have darkvision with
a range of 60 feet.

Allegiances: An afflicted wereat gains the law and evil allegiances
(displacing other allegiances, if need be). They also generally gain an
allegiance to other wererats, although this need not be the primary
allegiance. The allegiances to law and evil can be removed only when the
wererat has the ability to control the curse of lycanthropy by taking 10 on a
Control Shape check.

Saves: Same as the character, with a +2 species bonus on Fortitude and Reflex
saves.

Ability Scores: Wererats gain the following ability score increases: Dex +6,
Con +2. In addition, they gain the following ability score increase in hybrid
form: Str +2.

Skill Bonuses: Same as the character, with a +4 species bonus on Listen,
Search, and Spot checks when in humanoid form. In rat or hybrid form, these
bonuses increase to +8. A wererat in rat form also gains 3 ranks in Climb, 4
ranks in Hide, and 3 ranks in Move Silently.

Bonus Feats: Same as the character. A wererat gains the bonus feat Weapon
Finesse (any one eligible weapon) in humanoid form and the bonus feat Weapon
Finesse (bite) in rat or hybrid form.

Wererat in Humanoid Form (Human Fast Hero 1): CR 3; Medium humanoid; HD 1d8+2
plus 1d8+2; hp 13; Mas 15; Init +5; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 15, flat-
footed 13 (+5 Dex, +3 class); BAB +0; Grap +2; Atk +5 melee (1d4+2/19–20,
knife) or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4+2/19–20, knife)
or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ alternate
form, rat empathy; AL law, evil, wererats; SV Fort +4, Ref +8, Will +0; AP 0;
Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 21, Con 15, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 12.

Skills: Balance +9, Climb +11, Escape Artist +9, Hide +10, Knowledge
(streetwise) +3, Listen +4, Move Silently +8, Search +3, Spot +4, Tumble +9.

Feats: Dodge, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency,
Weapon Finesse (knife).

Possessions: Loaded Colt Python (.357 revolver), knife, casual clothes.

Advancement: By character class.

Wererat in Hybrid Form (Human Fast Hero 1): As humanoid form except: Spd 40
ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 19, touch 15, flat-footed 14 (+5 Dex, +1 natural,
+3 class); Grap +3; Atk +5 melee (1d4+3/19–20, knife) or +5 melee (1d4+3 plus
lycanthropy, bite); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+3/19–20, knife) or +3 melee (1d4+3
plus lycanthropy, bite); SQ curse of lycanthropy, damage reduction 15/silver,
scent, darkvision 60 ft.; Str 16.

Adjusted Skills: Listen +8, Search +7, Spot +8.

Adjusted Feats: Weapon Finesse (bite) instead of Weapon Finesse (knife).

Wererat in Rat Form (Human Fast Hero 1): As humanoid form except: Small
humanoid; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 20, touch 19, flat-footed 15 (+1
size, +5 Dex, +1 natural, +3 class); Grap –2; Atk +6 melee (1d4+2 plus
lycanthropy, bite); Full Atk +6 melee (1d4+2 plus lycanthropy, bite); SQ curse
of lycanthropy, damage reduction 15/silver, scent, darkvision 60 ft.

Adjusted Skills: Climb +14, Hide +18, Listen +8, Move Silently +11, Search +7,
Spot +8.

Adjusted Feats: Weapon Finesse (bite) instead of Weapon Finesse (knife).

