---
title: Action Types
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The four types of actions are [attack actions](/modern.d20.srd/combat/action.types), [move actions](/modern.d20.srd/combat/action.types), [full-round actions](/modern.d20.srd/combat/action.types), and [free actions](/modern.d20.srd/combat/action.types). In a normal round, a
character can perform an attack action and a move action (or two move actions;
a character can always take a move action in place of an attack action), or a
character can perform a full-round action. A character can also perform as
many free actions as the GM allows.

In some situations (such as in the surprise round) a character may be limited
to taking only a single attack or move action.

### Attack Action

An attack action allows a character to do something. A character can make an
[attack](/modern.d20.srd/combat/attack.roll), use a
[skill](/modern.d20.srd/skills) or a [feat](/modern.d20.srd/feats) (unless the
[skill](/modern.d20.srd/skills) or [feat](/modern.d20.srd/feats) requires a
full-round action to perform; see below), or perform other similar actions.
During a combat round, a character can take an attack action and a move
action. A character can take a move action before or after performing an
attack action.

### Move Action

A move action allows a character to move his or her speed or perform an action
that takes a similar amount of time. A character can move his or her speed,
climb one-quarter of his or her speed, draw or stow a weapon or other object,
stand up, pick up an object, or perform some equivalent action (see [Table: Actions in Combat](/modern.d20.srd/combat/actions.in.combat)).

A character can take a move action in the place of an attack action.

If a character moves no actual distance in a round, that character can take
one 5-foot step before, during, or after the action.

### Full-Round Action

A full-round action consumes all a character’s effort during a round. The only
movement the character can take during a full-round action is a 5-foot step
before, during, or after the action. Some full-round actions do not allow a
character to take a 5-foot step. A character can also per­form free actions
(see below) as the GM allows.

### Free Action

Free actions consume a very small amount of time and effort, and over the span
of the round, their impact is so minor that they are considered free. A
character can perform one or more free actions while taking another action
normally. However, the GM puts reasonable limits on what a character can
really do for free. For instance, dropping an object, dropping to a prone
position, speaking a sentence or two, and ceasing to concentrate on a magic
spell (if magic is available in the campaign) are all free actions.

