---
title: Attack Bonus
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Modern D20 ](/modern.d20.srd) > [Combat](/modern.d20.srd/combat) > Attack Bonus

## Attack Bonus

A character’s attack bonus with a melee weapon is: Base attack bonus +
[Strength](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) modifier + size modifier

With a ranged weapon, a character’s attack bonus is: Base attack bonus +
[Dexterity](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) modifier + range penalty +
size modifier

### [Strength](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) Modifier

[Strength](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) helps a character swing a
weapon harder and faster, so a character’s
[Strength](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) modifier applies to [melee attack](/modern.d20.srd/combat/attack.roll) rolls.

### Size Modifier


<table style="float: right"><tr><th colspan="2"> Table: Size Modifiers</th></tr> <tr> <th>Size (Example)</th> <th>Size Modifier</th> </tr> <tr><td>Colossal (blue whale [90 ft. long])</td><td> –8</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Gargantuan (gray whale [40 ft. long])</td><td> –4</td></tr> <tr><td>Huge (elephant)</td><td> –2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Large (lion)</td><td> –1</td></tr> <tr><td>Medium-size (human)</td><td> +0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Small (German shepherd)</td><td> +1</td></tr> <tr><td>Tiny (housecat)</td><td> +2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Diminutive (rat)</td><td> +4</td></tr> <tr><td>Fine (horsefly)</td><td> +8 </td></tr></table>


Creature size categories are defined differently from the size categories for
weapons and other objects. Since this size modifier applies to
[Defense](/modern.d20.srd/combat/defense) against a melee weapon
[attack](/modern.d20.srd/combat/attack.roll) or a ranged weapon
[attack](/modern.d20.srd/combat/attack.roll), two creatures of the same size
strike each other normally, regardless of what size they actually are.
Creature sizes are compatible with vehicle sizes.

### [Dexterity](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) Modifier

[Dexterity](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) measures coordination and
steadiness, so a character’s
[Dexterity](/modern.d20.srd/basics/ability.scores) modifier applies when the
character attacks with a ranged weapon.

### Range Penalty

The range penalty for a ranged weapon depends on what weapon the character is
using and how far away the target is. All ranged
[weapons](/modern.d20.srd/equipment/equipment.weapons) and thrown
[weapons](/modern.d20.srd/equipment/equipment.weapons) have a range increment.
Any attack from a distance of less than one range increment is not penalized
for range. However, each full range increment causes a cumulative –2 penalty
on the [attack roll](/modern.d20.srd/combat/attack.roll). A thrown weapon has
a maximum range of five range increments. Ranged weapons that fire projectiles
can shoot up to ten increments.

