---
title: Mystic
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Advanced Classes ](/arcana.d20.srd/advanced.classes) > Mystic

##  Mystic

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Dedicated hero basic
class, though other paths are possible. A high Charisma score is necessary to
ensure the ability to cast spells.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become an Mystic, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Diplomacy 6 ranks, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) 6 ranks, Listen
6 ranks.

Allegiance: At the time that the character receives her first level in the
Mystic advanced class, she must select an allegiance to a faith, concept,
tradition or alignment. The Mystic may choose positive (good) or negative
(evil) energy as an allegiance, but is not required to.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Mystic advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Mystics gain 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution modifier
applies.

**Action Points**

Mystics gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Mystic’s class skills are as follows: Concentration (Con), Craft
(chemical, pharmaceutical, visual arts) (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Gather
Information (Cha), Knowledge (art, behavioral sciences, earth and life
sciences, theology and philosophy) (Int), Perform (act, dance, sing, stand-up)
(Cha), Profession (Wis), Read/Write Language (none), Sense Motive (Wis),
Sleight of Hand (Dex), Speak Language (none), Spellcraft (Int), Spot (Wis),
Treat Injury (Wis). Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Mystic </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Arcane skills, divine spells </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Turn undead, divine spells </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat, divine spells </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Combat casting, divine spells </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Brew potion, divine spells </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat, divine spells </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Discern lie, divine spells </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Turn humans, divine spells </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Bonus feat, divine spells </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> Empower spell, divine spells </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +5 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Mystic advanced class.

**Arcane Skills**

At 1st level, the Mystic gains the Arcane Skills feat, granting access to the
following skills: Spellcraft, Use Magic Device, and the arcane functions of
Concentration and Craft (chemical).

**Divine Spells**

The Mystic casts divine spells the same as Acolytes. A Mystic’s selection of
spells is extremely limited. The Mystic begins play knowing four 0-level
spells (called orisons) and two 1st-level spells. At each level, the mystic
gains one or more new spells as indicated below). These spells can be common
spells chosen from the Mystic’s spell list or they can be unusual spells of
the Mystic’s own devising.

The Mystic is limited to casting a certain number of spells of each level per
day, but need not prepare those spells in advance. The number of spells that
may be cast per day may be increased by sufficiently high Charisma scores.

A Mystic may use a higher-level slot to cast a lower-level spell. The Mystic
may spend an action point to “trade out” a known spell (losing it entirely) in
exchange for another; in this fashion the Mystic is not penalized for filling
all the slots of their known spells list.

Mystics do not have “cure” or “inflict” spells in their spell lists. Mystic
may use incantations to cast these spells. The Difficulty Class for a saving
throw against the Mystic’s spell is 10 + the spell’s level + the Mystic’s
Wisdom modifier. The Mystic doesn’t acquire her spells from books or scrolls,
nor does she prepare them through study. Instead, she meditates or prays for
her spells, receiving them through her own strength of faith or as divine
inspiration. The Mystic must spend one hour each day in quiet contemplation or
supplication to regain her daily allotment of spells. Time spent resting has
no effect on the Mystic’s spell preparation. In addition, the Mystic receives
bonus spells based on her Wisdom score, as shown on the chart below.

Spell List: Mystics use the same spell list as Acolytes except that Mystics
may not use the spells listed below.

0-level: Cure minor wounds, inflict minor wounds

1st-level: Cure light wounds, inflict light wounds

2nd-level: Cure moderate wounds, inflict moderate wounds

3rd-level: Cure serious wounds, inflict serious wounds

4th-level: Cure critical wounds, inflict critical wounds

5th-level: Mass cure light wounds, mass inflict light wounds, raise dead


<table> <tr> <th> Cha Score </th> <th colspan="5"> —Bonus Spells by Spell Level— </th> </tr> <tr> <th> </th> <th> 1 </th> <th> 2 </th> <th> 3 </th> <th> 4 </th> <th> 5 </th> </tr> <tr> <th> 12–13 </th> <td> 1 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 14–15 </th> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 16–17 </th> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 18–19 </th> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 20–21 </th> <td> 2 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 22–23 </th> <td> 2 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> 1 </td> </tr> </table>
 
<table> <tr> <th> Mystic Level </th><th colspan="6"> —Spells per Day by Spell Level— </th> </tr> <tr> <th> </th> <th> 0 </th> <th> 1 </th> <th> 2 </th> <th> 3 </th> <th> 4 </th> <th> 5 </th> </tr> <tr> <th> 1 </th> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 2 </th> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 3 </th> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 4 </th> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 5 </th> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 6 </th> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> — </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 7 </th> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 8 </th> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 9 </th> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> <td> 2 </td> </tr> <tr> <th> 10 </th> <td> 6 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 5 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 4 </td> <td> 3 </td> </tr> </table>
 <!--
TABLE_PLACEHOLDER_3 --> **Turn or Rebuke Undead**

Starting at 2nd level, the Mystic gains the supernatural ability to affect the
undead, such as zombies, skeletons, ghosts, and vampires in a manner similar
to Acolyte. However, the Mystic’s allegiance does not effect the type of
effects she has on the undead. Furthermore, the Mystic affects undead as if
she were an Acolyte of one level lower than her current Mystic class.

A Mystic may turn, rebuke, command or bolster the undead. She may destroy the
undead if of sufficient levels. She cannot dispel the turning of an Acolyte.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Mystic gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat must
be selected from the following list, and the Mystic must meet all of the
prerequisites for the feat to select it. Alertness, Archaic Weapons
Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Attentive, Creative, Dodge, Educated,
Empower Turning, Greater Spell Focus, Greater Spell Penetration, Improved
Turning, Renown, Spell Focus, Spell Penetration, Trustworthy, Windfall. The
Mystic may also take any metamagic feats as bonus feats.

**Combat Casting**

At 4th level, the Mystic becomes adept at casting spells during combat. She
gets a +4 bonus to Concentration checks made to cast a spell while on the
defensive.

**Brew Potion**

At 5th level, the Mystic can create potions, which carry spells within
themselves.

The Mystic can create a potion of any spell of 3rd level or lower that she
knows. The spell must target a character or characters. Brewing a potion takes
one day. When the Mystic creates a potion, she sets the caster level. The
caster level must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and no higher
than the Mystic’s own level.

The purchase DC of the raw material to brew a potion is 15 + the potion’s
spell level + the potion’s caster level.

The Mystic must also spend experience points to brew a potion. The XP cost is
equal to the spell level x the caster level x the purchase DC of the raw
materials.

Finally, the Mystic makes a Craft (chemical) skill check. The DC for the check
is 10 + the spell level + the caster level. If the check fails, the raw
materials are used up but the XP are not spent. The Mystic can try again the
next day.

When the Mystic creates a potion, she makes any choices that she would
normally make when casting the spell. Whoever drinks the potion is the target
of the spell. Any potion that stores a spell with a costly material component
or an experience point cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to
the raw materials cost, the Mystic must expend the material component or pay
the XP cost when creating the potion.

**Discern Lie**

The Mystic develops the ability to gauge whether another character is telling
the truth by reading facial expressions and interpreting body language. The
Mystic must be able to see and hear (but not necessarily understand) the
individual under scrutiny.

The Mystic can determine whether a spoken statement is true or false with a
successful Sense Motive check opposed by the subject’s Bluff check or DC 10,
whichever is greater.

**Turn or Rebuke Humans**

Starting at 8th level, the Mystic gains the supernatural ability to affect
humans, allowing her to command them or drive them off in the fashion of the
Acolyte’s turn undead ability. The Mystic’s allegiance does not effect the
type of effects she has on humans. The ability does not affect humanoids or
other creatures. Unlike other turning abilities, the Mystic must spend an
action point to turn or rebuke humans.

A Mystic may turn, rebuke, command or bolster humans. She cannot destroy the
targeted humans with this ability, nor can she dispel the turning of another
individual.

**Empower Spell**

At 10th level, the Mystic learns to cast spells to greater effect. All
variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell are increased by one-half. An
empowered spell deals half again as much damage as normal, cures half again as
many hit points, affects half again as many targets, as appropriate. Spells
without random variables are not affected. An empowered spell uses up a spell
slot two levels higher than the spell’s actual level. Therefore, a Mystic can
only empower 1st, 2nd, or 3rd-level spells.

