---
title: Shadow Hunter
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Advanced Classes ](/arcana.d20.srd/advanced.classes) > Shadow Hunter

##  Shadow Hunter

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Dedicated hero basic
class, though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become a Shadow Hunter, a character must fulfill the following
criteria. High Strength and Charisma scores are also useful.

Base Attack Bonus: +2

Skills: Investigate 6 ranks, Sense Motive 6 ranks, Knowledge (arcane lore) 3
ranks.

Feats: Track, and Personal Firearms Proficiency or Archaic Weapons
Proficiency.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Shadow Hunter advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Shadow Hunters gain 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Shadow Hunters gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Shadow Hunter’s class skills are as follows: Bluff (Cha), Diplomacy (Cha),
Gather Information (Cha), Intimidate (Cha), Investigate (Int), Knowledge
(arcane lore, current events, popular cultures, streetwise) (Int), Listen
(Wis), Profession (Wis), Read/ Write Language (none), Research (Int), Search
(Int), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak Language (none), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table:The Shadow Hunter </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Target bonus +1 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Swift track </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> No trace, target bonus +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Play a hunch </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Target bonus +3 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Detect magical aura </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> Locate target </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Shadow Hunter advanced class.

**Target Bonus**

The Shadow Hunter, as a full-round action, may designate an individual as a
target. He spends one action point to select a target, and thereafter gains a
competence bonus on certain actions involving that particular target. The
Shadow Hunter does not need to know the target personally and may know her
only through her actions or description. The Shadow Hunter may not select a
target while he or the target is in combat, and once he chooses a target he
must wait 24 hours before choosing another.

The Shadow Hunter gains the target bonus as a competence bonus on attacks
against that particular target, as well as when using the following skills
directly against the target, or in tracking a target: Bluff, Computer Use,
Gather Information, Investigate, Listen, Research, Search, Sense Motive, and
Spot. The target bonus applies to a single individual and lasts until the
Shadow Hunter chooses a new target. The bonus is +1 at 1st level, +2 at 4th,
and +3 at 7th level.

**Swift Track**

At 2nd level, the Shadow Hunter may move at normal speed while using Track
without taking the –5 penalty.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th levels, the Shadow Hunter gets a bonus feat. The bonus
feat must be selected from the following list, and the Shadow Hunter must meet
all of the prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Armor Proficiency (archaic, light, medium), Brawl, Improved Brawl, Improved
Feint, Improved Grapple, Improved Knockout Punch, Knockout Punch,
Streetfighting.

**No Trace**

At 4th level, the Shadow Hunter knows how to hide his own tracks, and may, at
his choice, move into “No Trace” mode. All attempts to use the Track feat
against the Shadow Hunter (though not allies) treat the ground as “firm” for
purposes of success. In addition, the DC of any attempts to use Computer Use,
Gather Information, Investigate, and Research on matters involving the Shadow
Hunter are increased by the Shadow Hunter’s levels in this advanced class.

**Play a Hunch**

At 5th level, the Shadow Hunter gains the supernatural ability to make a guess
and be assured that it is correct. The Shadow Hunter may, as a full-round
action, spend an action point to determine whether an assumption, hunch, or
guess is correct. The player states the assertion and pays an action point.
Secretly rolls percentile dice; there is a 70% +1% per character level chance
of getting a response on the hunch (failure indicates merely that you are
unsure if this is true or not).

If the roll is a success, the player knows if the hunch is true, false, both
or neither. A “both” response is possible for vague assumptions. An “unknown”
response is for questions with no immediate answer.

It may be determined that a hunch is so obvious that it does not require a
roll, or that it is so vague that there is no chance for success. In these
cases, the action point is not spent (though the attempt still counts as a
full-round action). A hunch does not translate as a legal truth, and will not
stand up in a court of law. Rather it is an obvious fact to the Shadow Hunter
alone. Finding proof of an assumption would require additional work.

**Detect Magical Aura**

At 8th level, the Shadow Hunter gains the spell-like ability to detect magical
aura. The Shadow Hunter may use this effect up to three times per day, and
each use lasts for 20 minutes.

**Locate Target**

At 10th level, the Shadow Hunter gains the supernatural ability to know where
his target is, if in the target is in the general vicinity (1,000 feet of the
Shadow Hunter). This ability applies only to the target, and does not reveal
attitude, status, or the presence of others around the target. This is a
supernatural ability, and spells, psionics, and other FX that interfere with
supernatural abilities will foil the locate target ability as well.

