---
title: Speed Demon
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Advanced Classes ](/arcana.d20.srd/advanced.classes) > Speed Demon

##  Speed Demon

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Fast hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become a Speed Demon, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Drive 6 ranks.

Feats: Vehicle Expert.

Other: Base Reflex save +2.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Speed Demon advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Speed Demons gain 1d8 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Speed Demons gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Speed Demon’s class skills are as follows: Balance (Dex), Concentration
(Con), Craft (electronic, mechanical) (Int), Disable Device (Dex), Drive
(Dex), Knowledge (current events, popular culture, technology) (Int), Listen
(Wis), Profession (Wis), Navigate (Int), Pilot (Dex), Read/Write Language
(none), Repair (Int), Speak Language (none), Tumble (Dex).

Skill Points at Each Level: 5 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Speed Demon </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Uncanny dodge X </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Hit the weak spot </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Bonus feat, vehicle empathy </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Need for speed </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Nursing the turns </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat, commandeer </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Leadfoot </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Redlining the needle </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat. restore vehicle </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> One with the machine </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Speed Demon advanced class.

**Uncanny Dodge X**

The Speed Demon gains the ability of Uncanny Dodge, or increases the potency
of this ability if she already has it. If the Speed Demon does not have
Uncanny Dodge 1 (usually gained as a Fast hero), she gains Uncanny Dodge 1:
She retains her Dexterity bonus to Defense (if any) regardless of being caught
flat-footed or struck by a hidden attacker. (She still loses her Dexterity
bonus to Defense if she’s immobilized.) If the Speed Demon already has Uncanny
Dodge 1, she gains Uncanny Dodge 2: She can no longer be flanked; she can
react to opponents on opposite sides of herself as easily as she can react to
a single attacker.

If the Speed Demon already has Uncanny Dodge 2, then she gains no further
benefit from this ability.

**Hit the Weak Spot**

At 2nd level, the Speed Demon knows enough about vehicles to know the best way
to damage and disable them. Whether using a weapon or another vehicle, the
Speed Demon ignores the first 5 points of hardness when attacking a vehicle.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Speed Demon gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Speed Demon must meet all of
the prerequisites for the feat to select it. Brawl, Builder, Dodge, Drive-By
Attack, Force Stop, Gearhead, Improved Brawl, Renown, Streetfighting, Vehicle
Dodge, Vehicle Specialization.

**Vehicle Empathy**

At 3rd level, the Speed Demon gains the supernatural ability to use Disable
Device with a vehicle with which she has the Vehicle Specialization feat. This
is a free action, but she must be touching the vehicle in question in order
for the ability to function. This may include popping the locks without tools,
starting the engine without keys, or cracking the engine block by touching the
hood.

**Need For Speed**

At 4th level, the Speed Demon can improve the top speed of a ground or water
vehicle that she controls. The vehicle’s top speed is increased by 25%.

**Nursing the Turns**

At 5th level, the Speed Demon can get better performance out of a vehicle,
reducing some of its penalties. The Speed Demon may spend an action point to
negate the Maneuver penalty of a vehicle or Initiative penalty of a vehicle
she controls until the beginning of the Speed Demon’s next turn.

**Commandeer**

At 6th Level, the Speed Demon gains the supernatural ability to control a
vehicle even if she is not behind the wheel or otherwise in immediate control
of the vehicle. The Speed Demon makes all Drive checks for the vehicle as long
as she is in control.

The Speed Demon must be in contact with the vehicle, and loses control of it
if she no longer maintains contact. The vehicle must be a vehicle with which
the Speed Demon has the Vehicle Specialization feat.

The Speed Demon must make a Drive check for commandeering a vehicle. The DC is
10 for an otherwise uncontrolled vehicle or one in which the controller allows
the Speed Demon to assume control. If the controller of the vehicle resists
the Speed Demon’s attempts, the DC is 10 + the controller’s Drive skill.

**eadfoot**

At 7th level, the Speed Demon gains a +2 competence bonus on initiative checks
when controlling a vehicle.

**Redlining the Needle**

At 8th level, the Speed Demon treats Check/Roll Modifiers for All-Out and
Highway Speeds as Street Speeds (reduced to –1 as opposed to –2 and –4,
respectively).

**Restore Vehicle**

At 9th level, the Speed Demon gains the supernatural ability to, as a move
action or part of a move action, restore a vehicle to working condition. The
Speed Demon spends an action point and restores up to 10 points of damage to a
vehicle she is in contact with. The restoration is magical in nature, and may
be performed while the vehicle is in motion. The Speed Demon may restore
damaged portions of the vehicle, such as tires, in the same manner.

**One with the Vehicle**

At 10th level, the Speed Demon develops supernatural reflexes behind the
wheel, effectively reacting as if vehicle and body were one. When the Speed
Demon is in control of a vehicle, she can add her Defense bonus to that of the
vehicle. The Defense bonus applies to all parts of the vehicle, including
windshields, tires, and passengers.

