---
title: Techno Mage
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [Advanced Classes](/arcana.d20.srd/advanced.classes) > Techno Mage

## Techno Mage

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Smart hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

### Requirements

To qualify to become a Techno Mage, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Skills: Computer Use 6 ranks, Craft (electronics) 6 ranks, Knowledge (arcane
lore) 6 ranks, Repair 6 ranks.

### Class Information

The following information pertains to the Techno Mage advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Techno Mages gain 1d6 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Techno Mages gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Techno Mage’s class skills are as follows: Computer Use (Int),
Concentration (Con), Craft (chemical, electronic, mechanical, pharmaceutical)
(Int), Decipher Script (Int), Demolitions (Int), Disable Device (Int),
Investigate (Int), Knowledge (arcane lore, art, current events, history,
popular culture, streetwise, technology) (Int), Read/Write Language (none),
Repair (Int), Research (Int), Speak Language (none), Spellcraft (Int).

Skill Points at Each Level: 7 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr><th colspan="8">Table: The Techno Mage</th></tr> <tr><th>Level</th><th>Base Attack Bonus</th><th>Fort Save</th><th>Ref Save</th><th>Will Save</th><th>Special</th><th>Defense Bonus</th><th>Reputation Bonus</th></tr> <tr><td>1st</td><td>+0</td><td>+0</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>Arcane skills, arcane spells</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2nd</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td><td>+2</td><td>+0</td><td>Machine empathy, arcane spells</td><td>+1</td><td>+0</td></tr> <tr><td>3rd</td><td>+1</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>Bonus feat, arcane spells, program spell</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4th</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>Create homunculus, arcane spells</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr><td>5th</td><td>+2</td><td>+1</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td><td>Arcane spontaneous casting, arcane spells</td><td>+3</td><td>+1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6th</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>Bonus feat, arcane spells</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>7th</td><td>+3</td><td>+2</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>Spell focus, arcane spells</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8th</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td><td>Online casting, arcane spells</td><td>+4</td><td>+2</td></tr> <tr><td>9th</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>+4</td><td>+3</td><td>Bonus feat, arcane spells</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10th</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td><td>Quicken spells, arcane spells</td><td>+5</td><td>+3</td></tr> </table>


### Class Features

The following features pertain to the Techno Mage advanced class.

**Arcane Spells and Armor**

The Techno Mage can become proficient in the use of armor, and while his
limitations are not as great as the traditional Mage, he still has a difficult
time casting most arcane spells while wearing it. Armor restricts movement,
making the complicated gestures needed to cast spells with somatic components
harder to perform. When casting an arcane spell with a somatic component, the
chance of arcane spell failure depends on the type of armor being worn, as
shown below.


<table> <tr><th>Armor Type</th><th>Arcane Spell Failure, Proficient</th><th>Arcane Spell Failure, Nonproficient</th></tr> <tr><td>Light</td><td>0%</td><td>10%</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Medium</td><td>10%</td><td>20%</td></tr> <tr><td>Heavy</td><td>20%</td><td>30%</td></tr> </table>
 **Spellfiles**

The Techno Mage must study her spellfiles each day to prepare her spells. The
Techno Mage can’t prepare any spell not recorded in her spellfiles (except for
read magic, which the Techno Mage can prepare from memory). The Techno Mage
begins play with spellfiles containing all 0-level arcane spells and three
1st-level arcane spells of the player’s choice. For each point of Intelligence
bonus the Techno Mage has, her spellfiles hold one additional 1st-level arcane
spell. Each time the character attains a new level of Techno Mage, she gains
two new spells of any level or levels that she can cast, according to her new
level. The Techno Mage can also add spells found in other Techno Mages’
spellfiles or Mage’s spellbooks. (Mages may use spells found in the files of
Techno Mages.)

A set of spellfiles is usually put into a notebook or desktop computer, or a
PDA. Occasionally they are put on a secure website to allow access by cell
phone or satellite phone. Backup files are a must, and are usually kept in
another location (such as a safety deposit box). Hard copy is also used for
storage of spellfiles, sometimes bound in spellbooks.

**Arcane Skills**

At 1st level, the Techno Mage gains access to the arcane skill Spellcraft and
the expansion of the Concentration skill, as described under the Mage entry.

**Arcane Spells**

The Techno Mage’s key talent is the ability to cast arcane spells.

The Techno Mage is limited to a certain number of spells of each spell level
per day, according to his Techno Mage class level. The Techno Mage must
prepare spells ahead of time by resting for eight hours and spending one hour
studying his spellfiles. While studying, the Techno Mage decides which spells
to prepare. To learn, prepare, or cast a spell, the Techno Mage must have an
Intelligence score of at least 10 + the spell’s level. The Difficulty Class
for saving throws against the Techno Mage’s spells is 10 + the spell’s level +
the Techno Mage’s Intelligence modifier.

In addition, the Techno Mage receives bonus spells based on his Intelligence
score, as shown below.


<table> <tr><th>Int Score</th><th colspan="5">—Bonus Spells by Spell Level—</th></tr> <tr><th> </th><th>1</th><th>2</th><th>3</th><th>4</th><th>5</th></tr> <tr><td>12–13</td><td>1</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>14–15</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>16–17</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>18–19</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>20–21</td><td>2</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>22–23</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>1</td></tr> </table>
 
<table> <tr><th>Techno Mage Level</th><th colspan="6">—Spells per Day by Spell Level—</th></tr> <tr><th> </th><th>0</th><th>1</th><th>2</th><th>3</th><th>4</th><th>5</th></tr> <tr><td>1</td><td>3</td><td>1</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>2</td><td>4</td><td>2</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>3</td><td>4</td><td>2</td><td>1</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>—</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>5</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>1</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>—</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>7</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>1</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>8</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>—</td></tr> <tr><td>9</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>1</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>10</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>3</td><td>2</td></tr> </table>
 **Machine Empathy**

At 2nd Level, the Techno Mage is so comfortable with technology that she gains
a +2 competence bonus with any electronic or mechanical device, and in
addition may use any skill that involves technology untrained.

**Program Spell**

At 3rd level, the Techno Mage may spend an action point to insert a spell
within a particular analog or digital device, such that by touching a key (or
flicking a switch), the spell activates. All variables of the spell are set at
the time of casting.

Casting a spell takes the normal amount of time; discharging a programmed
spell is an attack action.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Techno Mage gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Techno Mage must meet all of
the prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Armor Proficiency (light), Builder, Educated, Gearhead, Greater Spell Focus,
Greater Spell Penetration, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Spell Focus, Spell
Penetration, Studious, Windfall.

The Techno Mage may also take any metamagic feats as bonus feats.

**Create Homunculus**

At 4th level, the Techno Mage can create a homunculus. The homunculus may be
flesh, digital, chemical, or biochemical in nature.

Creating a homunculus requires a DC 25 Wealth check to acquire the appropriate
equipment. The materials used are consumed in the creation of the homunculus.
In addition, the creation of a homunculus requires a pint of the Techno Mage’s
blood.

It takes a week to create a homunculus. During this time the Techno Mage must
labor for 8 hours a day. A character not actively working on the ritual must
perform no other activities except eating, sleeping, or talking. If she misses
a day, the process fails, and the ritual must begin anew. At the end of the
period, the Techno Mage makes an appropriate skill check for the Craft skill
connected with the particular subtype of homunculus (DC 20). A failure
indicates loss of the subject (requiring the Techno Mage to begin again) but
no other penalty.

The Techno Mage may create any number of homunculi. However, when a homunculi
perishes, its death deals 2d10 points of damage to the Techno Mage, so caution
is usually the by-word in homunculus creation.

**Arcane Spontaneous Casting**

At 5th, the Techno Mage chooses a number of spells she already knows equal to
her Intelligence modifier. From that point on, the Techno Mage can cast those
spells in place of already-chosen spells of the same level. The Techno Mage
“loses” a prepared spell to cast another spell of the same level or lower.

**Spell Focus**

At 7th level, the Techno Mage gains Spell Focus as a bonus feat.

**Online Casting**

At 8th level, the Techno Mage can cast spells through electronic devices,
including cameras, cell phones, and modems.

If the spell requires the caster to be seen, then the target must see the
caster, if it requires the caster to be heard, then the target must be able to
hear the caster. Range is determined from the caster to the pick-up device
(camera, keyboard, etc.) and then from the device to its target. The space
between keyboard and monitor, or camera and screen, is not considered. The
Techno Mage must be able to see or otherwise be able to determine the location
of her target (“person at the keyboard” is a suitable target). Spells cast
online are less effective, such that the target gets a +4 circumstance bonus
on saving throws.

**Quicken Spell**

At 10th level, the Techno Mage learns to cast some spells as free actions.
With but a moment’s thought (and the proper verbal, somatic, and material
components). She can perform another action, even casting another spell, in
the same round as she casts a quickened spell. She may only cast one quickened
spell per round. A spell whose casting time is more than 1 full round cannot
be quickened.

A quickened spell does not provoke an attack of opportunity. Quicken spell is
considered a metamagic ability for purposes of interacting with metamagic
feats.

When a quickened spell is prepared, it is treated as a spell of four levels
higher than the spell’s actual level, such that only 0- and 1st level spells
may be quickened by a Techno Mage.

