---
title: Thrasher
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Advanced Classes ](/arcana.d20.srd/advanced.classes) > Thrasher

##  Thrasher

The fastest path into this advanced class is from the Tough hero basic class,
though other paths are possible.

###  Requirements

To qualify to become an Thrasher, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +2.

Skills: Concentration 6 ranks, Survival 6 ranks.

Feats: Athletic or Endurance.

###  Class Information

The following information pertains to the Thrasher advanced class.

**Hit Die**

Thrashers gain 1d12 hit points per level. The character’s Constitution
modifier applies.

**Action Points**

Thrashers gain a number of action points equal to 6 plus one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they advance a level in this class.

**Class Skills**

The Thrasher’s class skills are as follows: Balance (Dex), Climb (Str),
Concentration (Con), Drive (Dex), Profession (Wis), Read/Write Languages
(none), Ride (Dex), Speak Language (none), Spot (Wis), Swim (Str), Survival
(Wis), Tumble (Dex).

Skill Points at Each Level: 3 + Intelligence modifier.


<table> <tr> <th colspan="8"> Table: The Thrasher </th> </tr> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Base Attack Bonus </th> <th> Fort Save </th> <th> Ref Save </th> <th> Will Save </th> <th> Special </th> <th> Defense Bonus </th> <th> Reputation Bonus </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1st </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Tough Defense </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 2nd </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> <td> Ability surge 1/day </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 3rd </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 4th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Uncanny dodge X </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> +0 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5th </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> <td> Ability surge 2/day </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 6th </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 7th </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Damage reduction 5/+1 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 8th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +2 </td> <td> Ability surge 3/day </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9th </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +6 </td> <td> +4 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Bonus feat </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 10th </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +7 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +3 </td> <td> Damage reduction 10/+1 </td> <td> +5 </td> <td> +2 </td> </tr> </table>


###  Class Features

The following features pertain to the Thrasher advanced class.

**Tough Defense**

Using his constitution instead of his dexterity, the Thrasher applies his
Constitution bonus to his Defense instead of his Dexterity bonus. Any
situation that would deny the Thrasher his Dexterity bonus to Defense denies
the Constitution bonus.

**Ability Surge**

At 2nd, 5th, and 8th level, the Thrasher can temporarily increase his Strength
and Dexterity, but at a penalty to saving throws. The Thrasher gains a +4
morale bonus to both Strength and Dexterity, but takes a –2 penalty on all
saving throws. Activating ability surge is a free action, and the surge lasts
for as many rounds as the character has Thrasher levels. Following an ability
surge, the Thrasher is fatigued (–2 to Strength and Dexterity) for as many
rounds as he surged, but may negate this penalty as a free action by spending
an action point.

The Thrasher may use the ability surge once per day at 2nd level, twice per
day at 5th level, and three times per day at 8th level.

**Bonus Feats**

At 3rd, 6th, and 9th level, the Thrasher gets a bonus feat. The bonus feat
must be selected from the following list, and the Thrasher must meet all of
the prerequisites for the feat to select it.

Alertness, Blind-Fight, Brawl, Cleave, Combat Expertise, Combat Reflexes, Far
Shot, Focused, Great Cleave, Improved Brawl, Improved Knockout Punch, Improved
Trip, Knockout Punch, Power Attack.

**Uncanny Dodge X**

The Thrasher gains the ability of Uncanny Dodge, or increases the potency of
this ability if he already has it.

If the Thrasher does not have Uncanny Dodge 1 (usually gained as a Fast hero),
he gains Uncanny Dodge 1: He retains his Dexterity bonus to Defense (if any)
regardless of being caught flat-footed or struck by a hidden attacker. (He
still loses his Dexterity bonus to Defense if he’s immobilized.)

If the Thrasher already has Uncanny Dodge 1, he gains Uncanny Dodge 2: He can
no longer be flanked; he can react to opponents on opposite sides of himself
as easily as he can react to a single attacker.

If the Thrasher already has Uncanny Dodge 2, then he gains no further benefit
from this ability.

**Damage Reduction**

Starting at 7th level, the Thrasher gains the ability to use the ambient magic
around him to shrug off some amount of injury from each attack. The Thrasher
gains damage reduction 5/+1. Subtract 5 from the damage the Thrasher takes
each time he is dealt damage from a physical attack—usually weapons or natural
attacks but not energy attacks (magical or nonmagical in origin, spells,
spell-like abilities, or supernatural abilities). Ignore damage reduction if
the damage is from a magic weapon or attack of +1 bonus or higher. Damage
reduction can reduce damage to 0, but not below 0. Damage reduction does not
stack with itself unless otherwise stated—if the Thrasher gains other forms of
damage reduction, apply the best damage reduction for the situation. Damage
reduction from the Thrasher class may stack with the Tough hero damage
reduction tree; in this case add the benefit of those damage reductions for
attacks from melee and ranged weapons.

At 10th level, this damage reduction increases to 10/+1.

