---
title: What If It Escapes?
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > [Scientific Engineering](/future.d20.srd/scientific.engineering) > What If It Escapes?

## What If It Escapes?

Specimens for use in laboratory experiments are generally bred to be short-
lived, require specific temperatures and conditions to thrive, and often are
sterilized. If a sample escapes or is accidentally released, it is nearly
impossible for it to survive outside the laboratory, and even more unlikely
that it would be able to reproduce. A virus that has a life cycle of 12 hours
and can only live in a pH3 solution of 30% saline between 60°F and 70°F is
extremely unlikely to survive long enough in the wild to affect anyone or
anything.

When scientists are working with a hardier organism, they often genetically
manipulate it so the creature has one of the following flaws.

Dependent: The organism requires a particular item or condition to survive.
For example, it may need to consume a particular chemical.

The frequency with which the organism requires its dependent condition varies
widely.


<table> <tr><th>Creature Size</th><th>Frequency</th></tr> <tr><td>Fine</td><td>Once every round</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Diminutive</td><td>Once every minute</td></tr> <tr><td>Tiny</td><td>Once every hour</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Small</td><td>Once every 4 hours</td></tr> <tr><td>Medium-size</td><td>Once every 6 hours</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Large</td><td>Once every 8 hours</td></tr> <tr><td>Huge</td><td>Once every 12 hours</td></tr> <tr class="shaded"><td>Gargantuan</td><td>Once every 24 hours</td></tr> </table>


If the organism’s dependent need is not met, it suffers 1d4 points of
Constitution damage each time the specified period passes.

Particular: The organism has an extreme preference (or an extreme dislike) for
a certain condition. Examples include darkness or bright light, wetness, heat
or cold.

When faced with the condition it is particular about, the organism must make a
successful Will save (DC 20) to resist the urge to remain where it is (or
flee, as appropriate).

Susceptible: The organism is damaged by a specific condition or material.
Examples include environments above or below a certain acidity or temperature,
or the presence of a particular gas or liquid.

When the organism comes in contact with the substance or condition to which it
is susceptible, it takes damage. The amount of damage is equal to the
creature’s Hit Die plus it’s Constitution modifier, if the modifier is a
positive number (having a low Constitution score does not allow the organism
to lessen the damage rolled).

This damage is in addition to any other damage caused by the contact. If, for
example, the organism was susceptible to steel and it was struck in melee by a
steel weapon, the creature would take the normal melee damage plus the damage
for being susceptible.

