---
title: Casting Spells through Email
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Any spell that can be scribed onto a scroll can likewise be saved in
electronic format—as email. In order to accomplish this, the caster must have
the Scribe Scroll ability and a minimum of 8 ranks in Computer Use.

All the spellcaster needs is a computer with Internet access and the usual
components necessary to cast the spell. First she writes the email, which
takes one minute per level of the spell. At the end of that time, the
spellcaster must cast the spell and succeed at a Computer Use check (DC 15 +
spell level). If the check fails, the email is not correctly typed, the spell
is ruined, and the spellcaster must begin anew. If the check succeeds, the
email carries the spell through cyberspace and delivers it to the mailbox of
the target.

A spellcaster casting a spell through email must expend XP as if scribing a
scroll.

There are several rules and restrictions pertaining to spells sent through
email:

Target: The target of the spell is always the person who first opens the
email. Any target with 10 or more ranks in Computer Use, Knowledge (arcane
lore or technology), or Spellcraft receives a +5 competence bonus to any
saving throws required by the spell.

No Spam: The email may only be sent to a single account. If you put more than
one address in the “Recipient” line, the spell is ruined and wasted.

Subject Line: The spell’s name must be typed into the “Subject” line of the
email. One can attempt to disguise the name by writing it in an obscure
language, an illegible font, or burying it in the middle of a larger phrase.

Duration: All spells begin immediately upon the email being opened. It is not
possible for a spellcaster to save the power from an email spell and discharge
it later.

Undeliverable: If the email is not opened within 72 hours, it becomes
undeliverable. The account that sent the original email will receive an email
notification of this. If the target opens the email after 72 hours have
elapsed, the body of the message will be blank.

