---
title: Machine Invisibility
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [Spells](/arcana.d20.srd/spells) > Machine Invisibility

## Machine Invisibility

Illusion

Level: Arcane 2; Components: V, S, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range:
Personal or touch; Target: One creature or object weighing no more than 100
lb./level; Duration: 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
or Will negates (harmless, object); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) or Yes
(harmless, object)

The creature or object touched cannot be detected by video cameras, electronic
sensors, or other high-tech detection machines. The creature is also invisible
to mechanical constructs such as gear golems, digital homunculi, and
mechanical homunculi. If the recipient is a creature carrying gear, the gear
is likewise undetectable. The subject is missing from still photos taken while
the spell is in effect, closed-circuit television monitors don’t display the
subject, and other machines are likewise fooled. The creature or object
touched can stand on a scale and doesn’t appear to weigh anything. Infrared
and heat sensors detect only the ambient heat levels. X-ray machines don’t
reveal the presence of an object with machine invisibility. Microphones don’t
pick up sounds that the subject makes directly, although they will pick up
sounds that subject makes by interacting with the environment. A hidden
microphone wouldn’t hear the subject’s voice but would record the sound of
that creature throwing a brick through a window. Items dropped or put down by
an affected creature become visible to machine detectors; items picked up
disappear if tucked into clothing or a bag carried by the creature. Light
never becomes invisible, although a source of light can become so (thus, the
effect in a photograph or video image is that of a light with no visible
source). Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more
than 10 feet from it becomes visible, such as a trailing rope.

The spell ends if the subject attacks any creature. For purposes of this
spell, an “attack” includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or effect
includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character’s
perceptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell.
Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. If the subject attacks directly,
however, the subject and its gear immediately becomes visible to machines.

While machine invisibility is useful for many tasks requiring stealth, it
sometimes makes the subject’s life more difficult. A stoplight sensor under an
intersection might not pick up a motorcycle with machine invisibility.
Automatic sliding doors at the supermarket won’t open for the subject of
machine invisibility. Talking on the telephone or radio is impossible.

Focus: A glass lens, which the caster fogs by breathing on it.

