---
title: Magic Message
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [Spells](/arcana.d20.srd/spells) > Magic Message

## Magic Message

Illusion

Level: Arcane 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Fullround action; Range:
Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One object (see text); Duration:
Permanent until discharged; Saving Throw: Will negates (object); Spell
Resistance: Yes (object)

This spell imbues a modern device such as a television, radio, computer
monitor, or news ticker with a message you set that’s delivered when a
specified event occurs. The message, which must be 25 words or less, is
delivered in a manner appropriate to the device targeted by the spell. A
newscaster on a targeted television will appear to speak the message. A stereo
plays the message as a repetitive song lyric. An electronic traffic sign
displays the message for all motorists to see.

The spell functions when specific conditions are fulfilled according to your
command as set in the spell. Commands can be as general or specific as
desired, although only visiual and audible triggers can be used such as the
following: “Deliver the message when a man in a dark suit walks past with a
gun drawn.” Triggers react to what appears to be the case. Disguises and
illusions can fool them. Normal darkness does not defeat a visual trigger
(it’s common for a television to flicker to life in a dark apartment,
delivering a magic message). Magical darkness and invisibility will defeat a
visual trigger, however, and silent movement and magical silence defeats
audible triggers. Audible triggers can be keyed to general types of noises
(footsteps, elevator music) or to a specific noise or a spoken work. Actions
can serve as triggers if they are visible or audible. For example, “Deliver
the message when any creature picks up the talking doll” is an acceptable
command if the creature is visible. A magic message cannot distinguish class,
level, Hit Dice, or allegiance.

The range limit of a trigger is 15 feet per caster level, so a 6th-level
caster can command a magic message to respond to triggers up to 90 feet away.
Regardless of range, the magic message can respond only to visible or audible
triggers and actions in line of sight or within hearing distance.

Material Component: A carved jade figurine (purchase DC 8).

