---
title: Magic Circle
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Abjuration

Level: Divine 3; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time:

Attack action; Range: Touch; Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation from touched
creature; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless);
Spell Resistance: No (see text)

This spell wards an area from attacks by creatures of a specific allegiance
(chosen when the spell is cast), from mental control, and from summoned or
conjured creatures. It creates a magical barrier around the subject at a
distance of 10 feet. The barrier moves with the subject and has three major
effects:

First, everyone inside the magic circle gains a +2 deflection bonus to Defense
and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply only against
attacks made by creatures with the specified allegiance.

Second, the barrier blocks any attempt to possess creatures within the magic
circle (as by a possession incantation). The barrier keeps out a possessing
life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast.

Third, the magic circle thwarts any attempt to exert mental control over
creatures within its area. If a dominated creature enters the magic circle,
mental control is lost for the duration of the magic circle spell or until the
creature leaves the protected area.

Fourth, the spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures of
the specified allegiance. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such
creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching
a creature inside the magic circle. The protection against contact by summoned
or conjured creatures ends if anyone inside the magic circle makes an attack
against a blocked creature or the subject tries to force the barrier against
the blocked creature.

Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and reach
and step inside the magic circle.

