---
title: Animated Object
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Animated Object

##  Animated Object

###  Species Traits

Blind (Ex): A sheetlike animated object (such as a carpet or a drape) can use
this ability against an opponent up to three size categories larger than
itself. The animated object makes a normal grapple check. If it gets a hold,
it wraps itself around the opponent’s head, blinding that creature until
removed. The blinded creature cannot make Search, Spot, or Survival checks to
track, and it takes a –6 circumstance penalty on all other checks related to
perception (such as Listen).

Constrict (Ex): A flexible animated object (such as a rope or chain) deals
automatic slam damage with a successful grapple check against a target up to
one size category larger than itself.

A Large or larger animated object (flexible or not) can make constrict attacks
against multiple creatures at once. Each of the targets of such an attack must
be at least two size categories smaller than the animated object and able to
fit underneath it.

Construct: An animated object has the traits and immunities common to
constructs.

Hardness (Ex): An animated object has the same hardness it had before it was
animated.

Improved Speed (Ex): The base speeds given in the statistics blocks below
assume that the animated objects lurch, rock, or slither along the ground. An
object with two legs (a statue or a ladder, for example) or some other feature
that allows faster movement has a bonus of +10 feet to its speed. An object
with multiple legs (such as a table, chair, or statue of a quadrupedal
creature) has a bonus of +20 feet, and a wheeled object has a bonus of +40
feet. Certain objects might also have other modes of movement. A wooden object
can float, so it has a swim speed equal to one-half its land speed. A rope or
similar sinuous object has a climb speed equal to one-half its land speed. A
sheetlike object can fly (clumsy maneuverability) at one-half its land speed.
Trample (Ex): As a standard action during its turn each round, a Large or
larger animated object with a hardness of at least 10 can trample opponents at
least two size categories smaller than itself. This attack deals bludgeoning
damage equal to the object’s slam damage plus 1.5 times its Strength modifier.
A trampled opponent can attempt either an attack of opportunity at a –4
penalty or a Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 object’s HD + object’s Strength bonus)
for half damage.

Tiny Animated Object: CR 1/2; Tiny construct; HD 1/2 d10; hp 2; Mas —; Init
+2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 14, flatfooted 12 (+2 size, +2 Dex); BAB +0;
Grap –9; Atk +1 melee (1d3–1, slam); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3–1, slam) or +4
ranged; FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ by object, construct,
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +2, Will –5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 8,
Dex 14, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Small Animated Object: CR 1; Small construct; HD 1d10+5; hp 10; Mas —; Init
+1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flatfooted 13 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +2
natural); BAB +0; Grap –4; Atk +1 melee (1d4, slam); Full Atk +1 melee (1d4,
slam) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ by object, construct,
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +1, Will –5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10,
Dex 12, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Medium-size Animated Object: CR 2; Medium-size construct; HD 2d10+10; hp 21;
Mas —; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flat-footed 14 (+4 natural);
BAB +1; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d6+1, slam); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6+1, slam)
or +1 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ by object, construct,
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will –5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12,
Dex 10, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Large Animated Object: CR 3; Large construct; HD 4d10+20; hp 42; Mas —; Init
+0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 9, flat-footed 14 (–1 size, +5 natural); BAB
+3; Grap +10; Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, slam); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, slam) or
+2 ranged; FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ by object, construct,
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +1, Ref +1, Will –4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 16,
Dex 10, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Huge Animated Object: CR 5; Huge construct; HD 8d10+40; hp 84; Mas —; Init –1;
Spd 30 ft.; Defense 13, touch 7, flatfooted 13 (–2 size, –1 Dex, +6 natural);
BAB +6; Grap +19; Atk +9 melee (2d6+7, slam); Full Atk +9 melee (2d6+7, slam)
or +3 ranged; FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ by object, construct,
darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +1, Will –3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20,
Dex 8, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Gargantuan Animated Object: CR 7; Gargantuan construct; HD 16d10+80; hp 168;
Mas —; Init –2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 12, touch 4, flat-footed 12 (–4 size, –2
Dex, +8 natural); BAB +12; Grap +31; Atk +15 melee (2d8+10, slam); Full Atk
+15 melee (2d8+10, slam) or +6 ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ
by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +5, Ref +3, Will +0;
AP 0; Rep +0; Str 24, Dex 6, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Colossal Animated Object: CR 10; Colossal construct; HD 32d10+120; hp 296; Mas
—; Init –3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 11, touch –1, flat-footed 11 (–8 size, –3 Dex,
+12 natural); BAB +24; Grap +49; Atk +25 melee (4d6+13, slam); Full Atk +25
melee (4d6+13, slam) or +13 ranged; FS 30 ft. by 30 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ by
object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +10, Ref +7, Will +5;
AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 4, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

