---
title: Bodak
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Bodak

##  Bodak

###  Species Traits

Acid and Fire Resistance 20 (Ex): A bodak ignores the first 20 points of acid
or fire damage from any single attack.

Damage Reduction 15/+1 (Su): A bodak ignores the first 15 points of damage
dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can
either disregard the bodak’s damage reduction or apply it only to certain
types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or
sonic/concussion). Death Gaze (Su): Any creature within 30 feet of a bodak
that meets its gaze must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the bodak’s
Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or die instantly. This ability is usable at
will.

Electricity Immunity (Ex): A bodak is immune to electricity damage.

Flashbacks (Ex): Occasionally, a bodak sees something that reminds it of its
past life. At the start of every encounter, there is a 5% chance that a bodak
notices something about an opponent (randomly determined if more than one
opponent is present) that triggers its memory of the past. When such a
flashback occurs, the bodak takes no actions for 1 round, though it can defend
itself normally. Thereafter, it takes a –2 morale penalty on all attack rolls
directed at that opponent for the remainder of the combat.

Languages: A bodak does not speak.

Sunlight Vulnerability (Ex): The merest touch of sunlight sears a bodak’s
tainted alien flesh. Each round of exposure to the direct rays of the sun
deals 1 point of damage to the creature.

Undead: A bodak has the traits and immunities common to undead.

Bodak: CR 10; Small undead; HD 9d12; hp 58; Mas —; Init +6; Spd 20 ft.;
Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 14 (+1 size, +2 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +4;
Grap +1; Atk +7 melee (1d4+1, slam); Full Atk +7 melee (1d4+1, slam); FS 5 ft.
by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ acid and fire resistance 20, damage reduction
15/silver, death gaze (DC 15), electricity immunity, flashbacks, sunlight
vulnerability, undead; AL evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
13, Dex 15, Con —, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 12.

**Skills:** Hide +11, Listen +9, Move Silently +11, Spot +9.

**Feats:** Dodge, Improved Initiative.

**Advancement:** 10–18 HD (Medium-size); 19–27 HD (Large).

Advanced Bodak: CR 11; Medium-size undead; HD 12d12; hp 78; Mas —; Init +6;
Spd 20 ft.; Defense 14, touch 11, flatfooted 13 (+1 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +6;
Grap +9; Atk +9 melee (1d6+3, slam); Full Atk +9 melee (1d6+3, slam) or +7
ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ acid and fire resistance 20, damage
reduction 15/silver, death gaze (DC 17), electricity immunity, flashbacks,
sunlight vulnerability, undead; AL evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +5, Will +9; AP 0;
Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 13, Con —, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 12.

**Skills:** Hide +12, Listen +11, Move Silently +12, Spot +11.

**Feats:** Dodge, Improved Initiative.

