---
title: Charred One
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
A charred one resembles a human being that has been burned to a blackened
husk. Its glowing-red eyes glitter with hatred and malice.

A charred one speaks one language that it knew in life. Its voice sounds like
crackling flames.

Despite its solid appearance, a charred one has no physical form and can glide
through solid objects. It gives off a shimmering, intense heat that can ignite
flammable objects it touches. In combat, a charred one uses its incorporeal
touch attack to set opponents afire.

###  Species Traits

Fire Subtype: A charred one is immune to fire damage. It takes 50% more damage
from cold.

Heat (Su): The intense heat generated by a charred one’s body deals 2d10
points of fire damage to anything it touches. This heat is usually enough to
melt nonmagical weapons, but a magic weapon subjected to this effect receives
a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the charred one’s Hit Dice + its Charisma
modifier). Flammable items, such as clothing, wood, or paper, are
automatically ignited by the touch of a charred one.

Incorporeal Subtype: A charred one has no physical form and can be harmed only
by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, though
it has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. The charred
one can pass through solid objects at will, and its own attacks pass through
armor. The charred one moves in complete silence and cannot be heard at all.

Locate Killer (Su): If the charred one was created as the result of arson or
careless use of fire, it gains the ability to hunt down the perpetrator. This
ability is similar to the effect of a locate object spell (as if cast by a
5th-level Acolyte), but the creature can locate only the creature responsible
for its death. A charred one can use this ability once per day.

Undead: A charred one has the traits and immunities common to undead.

Charred One: CR 3; Medium-size undead (fire, incorporeal); HD 5d12; hp 32; Mas
—; Init +1; Spd fly 30 ft.; Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1
deflection); BAB +2; Grap —; Atk +4 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal touch); Full
Atk +4 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.;
SQ darkvision 60 ft., fire subtype, heat (DC 13), incorporeal subtype, locate
killer, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
—, Dex 13, Con —, Int 6, Wis 17, Cha 13.

**Skills:** Hide +6, Intimidate +6, Listen +11, Read/Write Language (any one),
Speak Language (any one), Spot +11.

**Feats:** Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Focus (incorporeal touch).

**Advancement:** 6–10 HD (Medium-size); 11–15 HD (Large).

Advanced Charred One: CR 5; Medium-size undead (fire, incorporeal); HD 11d12;
hp 71; Mas —; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1
Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +5; Grap —; Atk +7 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal
touch); Full Atk +7 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., fire subtype, heat (DC 15), incorporeal
subtype, locate killer, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +12;
AP 0; Rep +0 Str —, Dex 13, Con —, Int 6, Wis 17, Cha 13.

**Skills:** Hide +10, Intimidate +10, Listen +13, Read/Write Language (any
one), Speak Language (any one), Spot +13.

**Feats:** Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Focus (incorporeal touch).

Possessions: None.

