---
title: Crawling Claw
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [Menaces](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Crawling Claw

## Crawling Claw

### Species Traits

Construct: Crawling claws have the traits and immunities common to constructs.

Gaze Immunity (Ex): Because it lacks eyes, a crawling claw is immune to gaze
attacks.

Smite Fallen (Ex): A crawling claw’s attacks deal double damage against prone
combatants.

Crawling Claw: CR 1/3; Diminutive construct; HD 1d10; hp 5; Mas —; Init +0;
Spd 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 15 (+4 size, +1 natural); BAB
+0; Grap –12; Atk +4 melee (1, claw); Full Atk +4 melee (1, claw); FS 1 ft. by
1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ construct, gaze immunity, smite fallen, spell
resistance 10; AL any; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will –3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex
10, Con —, Int —, Wis 5, Cha 5.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** None.

Create Crawling Claw

Transmutation [Evil]

Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: 1 hour; Range: Close (25 ft.
+ 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: Severed human left hands within a 5-foot-radius
circle; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes
(harmless)

You create a number of crawling claws up to twice your caster level. The hands
to be transformed must all be within a 5-foot-radius circle. Once created, the
group of crawling claws obeys your telepathic commands as long as the
instructions are simple and you are within 100 feet. If you give the crawling
claws simple standing orders before moving out of range, they obey these
orders to the best of their ability until you return and issue new orders.
Otherwise, they mill about aimlessly, attacking anything that moves into their
space.

Material Component: Clippings from a ghoul’s fingernails, and a ring that
someone else lost.

