---
title: Dread Tree
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
###  Species Traits

Blindsight (Ex): A dread tree is blind but can ascertain all creatures and
objects within 30 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range,
all targets have total concealment with respect to the dread tree.

Double Damage against Objects (Ex): A dread tree that makes a full attack
against an object or structure deals double damage to it.

Fire Vulnerability (Ex): A dread tree takes 50% more damage from fire attacks.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the dread tree must hit an opponent
at least one size category smaller than itself with its slam attack. If it
gets a hold, it automatically deals slam damage each round that the hold is
maintained, and it can smash in the next round (see below).

Intoxicating Fruit (Ex): The fruit of a dread tree produces a scent that is
extremely intriguing to mammals. Any such creature within 100 feet of a dread
tree must make a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the dread tree’s Hit Dice +
its Charisma modifier) or move into its fighting space. Once there, the
creature must make another successful Will save (same DC) or pick and eat the
fruit. A creature too small to reach the branches eats fruit that has fallen
from the tree. The fruit contains an ingested poison (Fortitude save DC 18;
1d6 Dex/unconsciousness for 2d6 rounds). The toxin remains viable for 1d6 days
after picking.

Plant: Dread trees have the traits and immunities common to plants.

**Skills:** Because a dread tree is intelligent, it gains skill points as if
it were an animal. A dread tree gains a +16 species bonus on Hide checks made
in forested areas.

Smash (Ex): A dread tree can smash a grappled opponent into its trunk or on
the ground, dealing slam damage every round the hold is maintained.

Dread Tree: CR 8; Huge plant; HD 7d8+35; hp 66; Mas —; Init –1; Spd 20 ft.;
Defense 20, touch 7, flat-footed 20 (–2 size, –1 Dex, +13 natural); BAB +5;
Grap +22; Atk +12 melee (2d6+13, slam); Full Atk +12 melee (2d6+13, slam); FS
10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ blindsight 30 ft., double damage against
objects, fire vulnerability, intoxicating fruit (DC 14), plant, smash 2d6+13;
AL evil; SV Fort +10, Ref +1, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 29, Dex 8, Con 21,
Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 12.

**Skills:** Hide –6 (+10 in forested areas), Intimidate +4, Listen +5, Spot
+5.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 8–16 HD (Huge); 17–21 HD (Gargantuan).

Advanced Dread Tree: CR 12; Gargantuan plant; HD 17d8+119; hp 195; Mas —; Init
–1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 22, touch 5, flat-footed 22 (–4 size, –1 Dex, +17
natural); BAB +12; Grap +41; Atk +25 melee (2d8+17, slam); Full Atk
+25/+20/+15 melee (2d8+17, slam); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ
blindsight 30 ft., double damage to objects, fire vulnerability, intoxicating
fruit (DC 19), plant, smash 2d8+17; AL evil; SV Fort +17, Ref +4, Will +7; AP
0; Rep +0; Str 37, Dex 8, Con 25, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 12.

**Skills:** Hide –6 (+10 in forested areas), Intimidate +4, Listen +5, Spot
+5.

**Feats:** None.

