---
title: Elohim
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Elohim

##  Elohim

###  Species Traits

Elemental: An elohim has the traits and immunities common to elementals.

Fear Aura (Su): When in its fire form (see below), an elohim projects an aura
of righteous wrath that is fearsome to behold. Each creature within 30 feet
must succeed on a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the elohim’s Hit Dice + its Charisma
modifier) or cower until the elohim moves out of range, until it stops using
its fire form ability, or until 10 rounds have elapsed. Thereafter, the
creature is shaken for 24 hours.

A creature that makes a successful saving throw or has stopped cowering after
a failure is immune to that elohim’s fear aura for 24 hours.

Fire Form (Ex): At will, an elohim can assume fire form, changing its body and
equipment into a pillar of living, semisolid flame. In this form, the elohim
can use its flame shield ability and swing its flame sword normally, but any
normal, unattended objects it touches immediately catch on fire. Any creature
that touches or is touched by an elohim in fire form takes 2d6 points of fire
damage; a successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the elohim’s Hit Dice + its
Charisma modifier) halves the damage. A creature that grapples with an elohim
in this form takes 4d6 points of fire damage per round of grappling (no saving
throw). In fire form, the elohim can deal an extra 2d6 points of fire damage
to an opponent with a successful unarmed attack, though it usually prefers to
use its flame sword. An elohim in fire form can fly at a speed of 60 feet with
perfect maneuverability, and it gains damage reduction 10/+1 and a +10
circumstance bonus on Escape Artist checks. Assuming fire form or reverting to
human form requires a full-round action. An elohim that is killed or knocked
unconscious while in fire form instantly reverts to its human form.

Fire Subtype (Ex): Elohim are immune to fire damage and take 50% more damage
from cold attacks.

Flame Shield (Su): At will as an attack action, an elohim can summon a shield
of semisolid fire that floats near its body. This shield grants the creature a
+2 bonus to Defense, and any adjacent foe that makes a melee attack against
the elohim takes 1d6 points of fire damage from the shield.

If desired, the elohim can use an attack action to send the flame shield
hurtling toward a foe up to 100 feet away with no range penalty. On a
successful ranged touch attack, the shield deals 3d6 points of fire damage to
the designated foe; a successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the elohim’s Hit
Dice + the elohim’s Charisma modifier) halves the damage. The elohim loses the
shield’s other benefits, and the shield itself disappears.

Flame Sword (Su): At will as a free action, an elohim can summon forth a
greatsword made of semisolid fire. The elohim must use both hands to wield
this weapon, which deals 2d6 points of damage and 3d6 points of fire damage on
a successful hit. The sword threatens a critical hit on a roll of natural 20
and deals double damage on a confirmed critical hit. Should the weapon leave
the hands of the elohim, it vanishes in a puff of smoke.

Telepathy (Su): An elohim can speak telepathically to any other creature
within 100 feet. Its telepathic words are comprehensible to any intelligent
creature, even if the creature and the elohim share no common language. An
elohim cannot read thoughts, so any creature that receives a telepathic
message from an elohim must respond verbally in a language that the latter can
understand in order to converse.

Elohim: CR 8; Medium-size elemental (fire); HD 7d8+21; hp 52; Mas —; Init +1;
Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (perfect; fire form only); Defense 15, touch 11, flat-
footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 natural) or 17, touch 11, flat-footed 16 (+1 Dex, +4
natural, +2 flame shield); BAB +5; Grap +6; Atk +6 melee (2d6+1 plus 3d6 fire,
flame sword) or +6 ranged touch (3d6 fire, flame shield); Full Atk +6 melee
(2d6+1 and 3d6 fire, flame sword) or +6 ranged touch (3d6 fire, flame shield);
FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ damage reduction 10/+1 (fire form only),
darkvision 60 ft., elemental, fear aura (DC 17), fire form (DC 17), fire
subtype, flame shield (DC 17), flame sword, telepathy; AL elohim or any, evil;
SV Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 14, Wis
15, Cha 19.

**Skills:** Bluff +10, Diplomacy +10, Gather Information +10, Intimidate +10,
Investigate +8, Read/Write English, Read/ Write Language (any two), Research
+8, Search +4, Speak English, Speak Language (any two).

**Feats:** Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple
Weapons Proficiency.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Elohim Charismatic Hero 4: CR 12; Medium-size elemental (fire); HD 7d8+21 plus
4d6+12; hp 78; Mas —; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (perfect; fire form
only); Defense 17, touch 12, flatfooted 16 (+1 Dex, +4 natural, +1 class, +1
equipment) or 19, touch 12, flat-footed 18 (+1 Dex, +4 natural, +1 class, +1
equipment, +2 flame shield); BAB +7; Grap +8; Atk +8 melee (2d6+2 plus 3d6
fire, flame sword) or +9 ranged (2d6, HK MP5) or +8 ranged touch (3d6 fire,
flame shield); Full Atk +8/+3 melee (2d6+2 plus 3d6 fire, flame sword) or
+9/+4 ranged (2d6, HK MP5) or +8 ranged touch (3d6 fire, flame shield); FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ damage reduction 10/+1 (fire form only),
darkvision 60 ft., elemental traits, fear aura (DC 20), fire form (DC 20),
fire subtype, flame shield (DC 20), flame sword, telepathy; AL evil, elohim or
any; SV Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +5; AP 2; Rep +5; Str 12, Dex 13, Con 16, Int
14, Wis 15, Cha 20.

**Skills:** Bluff +18, Diplomacy +18, Gather Information +15, Intimidate +16,
Investigate +8, Profession +9, Read/Write (English), Read/Write (Spanish),
Research +8, Search +4, Speak (English), Speak (Spanish).

**Feats:** Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Burst Fire, Personal Firearms
Proficiency, Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Trustworthy. Talents
(Charismatic Hero): Coordinate, fast-talk.

Possessions: Light undercover shirt, HK MP5, 60 rounds of 9mm ammunition (2
magazines), cell phone, PDA, briefcase.

