---
title: Grimlock
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Grimlock

##  Grimlock

###  Species Traits

Automatic Language: A grimlock can speak (but not read or write) one local
surface language.

Blindsight (Ex): A grimlock is blind but can ascertain all creatures and
objects within 40 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range,
all targets have total concealment with respect to the grimlock.

Grimlocks are affected normally by loud noises and sonic spells (such as shout
or silence) and overpowering odors (such as a troglodyte’s stench or incense-
thick air). Negating a grimlock’s sense of either smell or hearing denies it
the benefits of blindsight, but the grimlock still functions as though it had
the Blind-Fight feat. If both smell and hearing are negated, the grimlock is
effectively blind.

Immunities (Ex): A grimlock is immune to gaze attacks, visual effects,
illusions, and all other attack forms that rely on sight.

Scent (Ex): This ability allows a grimlock to detect approaching enemies,
sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.

Skill Bonus: A grimlock’s dull gray skin helps it hide in its native terrain,
conferring a +10 species bonus on Hide checks in rocky terrain or underground.

Grimlock: CR 1; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Mas 13; Init
+1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB
+2; Grap +4; Atk +5 melee (1d6+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +4 melee
(1d8+2, spear); Full Atk +5 melee (1d6+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +4
melee (1d8+2, spear) or +3 ranged (1d8+2, spear); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
ft.; SQ blindsight 40 ft., immunities, scent; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +4,
Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 6.

**Skills:** Climb +7, Hide +6 (+16 in rocky terrain or underground), Listen
+4, Search +5, Speak English, Survival +2.

**Feats:** Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Brawl.

Possessions: Spear.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Grimlock Strong Hero 3: CR 4; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8+2 plus
3d8+3; hp 27; Mas 13; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed
14 (+1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +5; Grap +7; Atk +9 melee (1d8+4 nonlethal,
unarmed strike) or +8 melee (1d8+4, spear); Full Atk +9 melee (1d8+4
nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +8 melee (1d8+4, spear) or +6 ranged (1d8+2,
compound bow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ blindsight 40 ft.,
immunities, scent; AL evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +3; AP 1; Rep +0; Str 15,
Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 6.

Occupation: Rural (class skills: Climb, Swim).

**Skills:** Climb +11, Hide +6 (+16 in rocky terrain or underground), Jump +7,
Listen +4, Search +5, Survival +5, Swim +5.

**Feats:** Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Athletic, Brawl, Improved Brawl,
Simple Weapons Proficiency, Track, Weapon Focus (spear).

Talents: Improved Melee Smash, Melee Smash.

Possessions: Spear, compound bow with 12 arrows.

