---
title: Half-Fiend (Template)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Half-Fiend (Template)

##  Half-Fiend (Template)

###  Template Traits

“Half-fiend” is an inherited template that can be added to any living creature
(referred to hereafter as the “base creature”) other than a celestial. The
creature’s type changes to outsider. It uses all the base creature’s
statistics and special abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: Same as base creature +2, or +3 if the half-fiend has wings.

Speed: There is a 25% chance that a half-fiend has batlike wings. Such a
creature can fly at the base creature’s normal speed (average
maneuverability).

Defense: The base creature’s natural armor bonus improves by +1.

Attacks: A half-fiend retains all the attacks of the base creature. It also
gains a bite attack and two claw attacks if the base creature didn’t already
have them. If the base creature did not have bite and claw attacks, use the
base damage values in the table below. Otherwise, use the values below or the
base creature’s base damage, whichever is greater.


<table> <tr> <th> Size </th> <th> Bite Damage </th> <th> Claw Damage </th> </tr> <tr> <td> Fine </td> <td> 1 </td> <td> — </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Diminutive </td> <td> 1d2 </td> <td> 1 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Tiny </td> <td> 1d3 </td> <td> 1d2 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Small </td> <td> 1d4 </td> <td> 1d3 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Medium-size </td> <td> 1d6 </td> <td> 1d4 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Large </td> <td> 1d8 </td> <td> 1d6 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Huge </td> <td> 2d6 </td> <td> 1d8 </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> Gargantuan </td> <td> 2d8 </td> <td> 2d6 </td> </tr> <tr> <td> Colossal </td> <td> 4d6 </td> <td> 2d8 </td> </tr> </table>



Special Qualities: A half-fiend retains all the special qualities of the base
creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.

Darkvision (Ex): A half-fiend has darkvision with a range of 60 feet.

Damage Reduction (Ex): Roll on Table: Fiend Immunities, Resistances, and
Damage Reduction, subtracting 30 from the die roll, to determine whether the
half-fiend has damage reduction. If the result is less than 1, the half-fiend
has no damage reduction. If the campaign includes few or no magic weapons, the
GM should consider allowing specific types of weapons to ignore a half-fiend’s
damage reduction or contrive some other special vulnerability.

Immunities (Ex): Roll on Table: Fiend Immunities, Resistances, and Damage
Reduction, subtracting 30 from the die roll, to determine whether the half-
fiend has any immunities. If the result is less than 1, the half-fiend has no
immunities.

Outsider: A half-fiend has the traits common to outsiders.

Resistance to Energy (Ex): Roll on Table: Fiend Immunities, Resistances, and
Damage Reduction, subtracting 30 from the die roll, to determine whether the
half-fiend has any resistances. If the result is less than 1, the half-fiend
has no resistances.

Spell-Like Abilities: A half-fiend with an Intelligence or Wisdom score of 8
or higher possesses spell-like abilities according to its character level, as
given on the table below. Unless otherwise indicated, each ability is usable
once per day.


<table> <tr> <th> Level </th> <th> Abilities </th> <th> Level </th> <th> Abilities </th> </tr> <tr> <td> 1–2 </td> <td> Mage hand 3/day </td> <td> 11–12 </td> <td> Levitate </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 3–4 </td> <td> Daze 3/day </td> <td> 13–14 </td> <td> Displacement </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 5–6 </td> <td> Change self </td> <td> 15–16 </td> <td> Tongues </td> </tr> <tr class="shaded"> <td> 7–8 </td> <td> Cause fear </td> <td> 17–18 </td> <td> Bestow curse </td> </tr> <tr> <td> 9–10 </td> <td> Blur </td> <td> 19+ </td> <td> Animate dead </td> </tr> </table>



Telepathy (Su): A half-fiend with an Intelligence score of 12 or higher can
communicate telepathically with any living creature within 100 feet that has a
language.

Allegiances: A half-fiend always has an allegiance to evil.

Saves: Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.

Ability Scores: A half-fiend gains the following ability score increases: Str
+4, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +4, Cha +2.

Automatic Language: A half-fiend can speak Abyssal.

**Skills:** A half-fiend gains skill points as an outsider of its nonclass Hit
Dice. Treat skills from the base creature’s list as class skills. If the
creature has a class, it gains skills for class levels normally.

**Feats:** A half-fiend gains feats as an outsider of its nonclass Hit Dice or
as the base creature, whichever gives the greater number of feats.

