---
title: Harpy
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
###  Species Traits

Bonus Feat: A harpy gains Flyby Attack as a bonus feat.

Captivating Song (Su): The song of a harpy is a sonic, mind-affecting charm
effect that fills a 300-foot spread. Every creature within that area that can
hear the harpy must succeed at a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the harpy’s Hit Dice +
its Charisma modifier) or become utterly captivated for as long as the harpy
sings. A captivated creature immediately begins moving toward the harpy,
taking the most direct route available. If its path leads into a dangerous
area (through flame, off a building, or the like), the creature is entitled to
a second saving throw at the same DC to negate the effect.

An affected creature within 5 feet of the harpy simply stands there and offers
no resistance to the monster’s attacks, although it can defend itself against
attacks from other sources. Extremely loud music and other noises (such as an
air horn) allow the captivated creature a new Will save. A creature that makes
a successful saving throw at any point negates the effect and is immune to
that harpy’s song for 24 hours. A harpy is immune to its own captivating song
ability and to those of other harpies.

Species Bonuses: The harpy’s amazing voice grants it a +4 species bonus on
Perform (act), Perform (sing), and Perform (stand-up) checks.

Harpy: CR 4; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 7d8; hp 31; Mas 10; Init +2;
Spd 20 ft., fly 80 ft. (average); Defense 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2
Dex, +1 natural, +1 leather jacket); BAB +7; Grap +7; Atk +7 melee (1d8, metal
baton); Full Atk +7/+2 melee (1d8, metal baton) or +7 melee (1d4, 2 claws) or
+9/+4 ranged (2d6, S&W M29); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ captivating
song (DC 15); AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +7, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 7, Wis 10, Cha 15.

**Skills:** Bluff +6, Listen +5, Perform (act) +8, Perform (sing) +8, Perform
(stand-up) +6, Read/Write English, Speak English, Spot +6.

**Feats:** Flyby Attack, Personal Weapon Proficiency, Simple Weapons
Proficiency.

Possessions: Leather jacket, S&W M29 (.44 magnum revolver), 50 rounds of
ammunition, metal baton.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Harpy Charismatic Hero 4: CR 8; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 7d8 plus
4d6; hp 45; Mas 10; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., fly 80 ft. (average); Defense 15,
touch 13, flat-footed 13 (+2 Dex, +1 class, +1 natural, +1 leather jacket);
BAB +9; Grap +9; Atk +9 melee (1d8, metal baton); Full Atk +9/+4 melee (1d8,
metal baton) or +9 melee (1d4, 2 claws) or +12/+7 ranged (2d6, S&W M29); FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ captivating song (DC 16); AL chaos, evil; SV
Fort +4, Ref +9, Will +6; AP 2; Rep +6; Str 10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 7, Wis 10,
Cha 16.

**Skills:** Bluff +10, Knowledge (any two) +2, Listen +5, Perform (act) +11,
Perform (sing) +11, Perform (stand-up) +9, Read/Write English, Speak English,
Spot +9.

**Feats:** Flyby Attack, Personal Weapon Proficiency, Point Blank Shot,
Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Focus (S&W M29).

Talents (Charismatic): Charm, fast-talk.

Possessions: Leather jacket, S&W M29 (.44 magnum revolver), 50 rounds of
ammunition, metal baton.

