---
title: Litter Brute
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Litter Brute

##  Litter Brute

###  Species Traits

Construct: A litter brute has the traits and immunities common to constructs.

Dimension Door (Sp): At will, a litter brute can remove its essence from the
objects that form its body, dropping them wherever they happen to land, then
reappear up to 500 feet away, reconstructing its body from garbage and refuse
there (assuming enough raw material exists in the target location). The litter
brute cannot use its dimension door ability to transport other objects or
creatures.

Electricity Immunity (Ex): A litter brute takes no damage from electricity. In
fact, a litter brute struck by an electrical attack uses the residual energy
to deal +1d6 points of electricity damage on its slam attacks the following
round.

Engulf (Ex): A litter brute can simply bowl over opponents up to one size
category smaller than itself as a free attack during its move action. This
attack affects as many opponents as the monster’s body can cover. Each target
can make either an attack of opportunity against the litter brute or a Reflex
save (DC 10 + 1/2 the litter brute’s Hit Dice + its Strength modifier) to
avoid being engulfed. A successful saving throw indicates that the target has
been pushed back or aside (target’s choice) as the litter brute surges
forward.

An engulfed creature is considered grappled. A litter brute cannot make a slam
attack during a round in which it attempts to engulf, but each engulfed
creature takes slam damage (half bludgeoning, half slashing) on that round and
every round that it remains trapped.

Fast Healing 1: So long as there is some sort of litter or refuse within 60
feet of it, a litter brute heals 1 point of damage per round unless it is
reduced to –10 or fewer hit points. This ability does not enable the litter
brute to regrow or reattach severed body parts.

Garbage Growth (Ex): A litter brute can stuff objects inside itself to add to
its bulk, if desired. Given enough time and a large enough supply of refuse,
it can increase its Hit Dice by 1 per 24 hours, provided that it does nothing
else. See Advancement (below) for changes in size category based on Hit Dice.

Sharp Implements: Within a litter brute’s body are countless sharp implements,
which protrude from its form in various places. Because of these protrusions,
half of the damage a litterfolk deals with a slam attack is slashing damage.

Litter Brute: CR 4; Large construct; HD 6d10+20; hp 53; Mas —; Init +0; Spd 20
ft.; Defense 17, touch 9, flat-footed 17 (–1 size, +8 natural); BAB +4; Grap
+10; Atk +5 melee (1d8+2, slam); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+2, 2 slams); FS 10 ft.
by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct, darkvision 60 ft., dimension door,
engulf, fast healing 5, garbage growth, sharp implements; AL none; SV Fort +2,
Ref +2, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 11, Con —, Int —, Wis 12, Cha 6.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 7–10 HD (Large); 11–18 HD (Huge); 19–24 HD (Gargantuan).

Advanced Litter Brute: CR 6; Huge construct; HD 12d10+40; hp 106; Mas —; Init
–1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 18, touch 7, flatfooted 18 (–2 size, –1 Dex, +11
natural); BAB +9; Grap +23; Atk +13 melee (2d6+6, slam); Full Atk +13 melee
(2d6+6, 2 slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct, darkvision
60 ft., dimension door, engulf, fast healing 5, garbage growth, sharp
implements; AL none; SV Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 9,
Con —, Int —, Wis 12, Cha 6.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

