---
title: Mapinguari
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Mapinguari

##  Mapinguari

A mapinguari is more than 7 feet tall at the shoulder. Its body resembles that
of a sloth and is covered with shaggy black or dark red fur. It has a long,
sharp, backward-curving talon on each toe, and its face looks almost human.
Few creatures can bear to come close enough to see its face, however, because
of its unbearable stench. This foul odor emanates from a scent gland in its
abdomen, which the natives have fancifully dubbed a “second mouth.” The
mapinguari’s long, bellowing roar is legendary, and a few recordings of it are
in the possession of the Smithsonian Institute.

###  Species Traits

Scent (Ex): This ability allows a mapinguari to detect approaching enemies,
sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.

Stench (Ex): The odor of a mapinguari is overpoweringly offensive. Anyone
approaching within 60 feet of the creature must make a successful Fortitude
save (DC 18) or become nauseated. The nausea persists for as long as the
creature remains in the area and for 1 round thereafter.

If a creature leaves and reenters the area, a new save is required.

Mapinguari: CR 5; Large animal; HD 8d8+48; hp 84; Mas 22; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.;
Defense 15, touch 9, flat-footed 15 (–1 size, +6 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16;
Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, slam); Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, 2 slams); FS 10 ft. by
10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent, stench; AL none; SV Fort
+12, Ref +2, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 11, Con 22, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha
8.

**Skills:** Climb +10, Listen +5.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 9–12 HD (Large); 13–18 HD (Huge).

Advanced Mapinguari: CR 7; Huge animal; HD 15d8+120; hp 187; Mas 26; Init –1;
Spd 30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 7, flatfooted 16 (–2 size, –1 Dex, +9 natural);
BAB +11; Grap +29; Atk +19 melee (2d4+10, slam); Full Atk +19 melee (2d4+10, 2
slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent, stench;
AL none; SV Fort +17, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 9, Con 26,
Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8.

**Skills:** Climb +14, Listen +5.

**Feats:** None.

