---
title: Mongolian Death Worm
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Mongolian Death Worm

##  Mongolian Death Worm

###  Species Traits

Bonus Feat: A Mongolian death worm gains Weapon Finesse (bite) as a bonus
feat.

Death Touch (Su): Any creature grappling with a Mongolian death worm must make
a successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the worm’s Hit Dice + its
Constitution modifier) each round or gain one negative level that lasts only
until the grapple ends (no saving throw needed for removal).

Most Mongolian death worms use this ability purely in self-defense, but some
of the larger ones learn that it can be a swift means of killing prey.

Poison (Ex): Bite—Fortitude negates; save DC 10 + 1/2 the worm’s Hit Dice +
its Constitution modifier; 1d6 Con/1d6 Con.

Poison Spray (Ex): Once every 1d4 rounds, the Mongolian death worm can spray
poison in a 15-foot cone. See above for the effects of the poison.

Tremorsense (Ex): A Mongolian death worm can automatically sense the location
of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.

Mongolian Death Worm: CR 3; Small magical beast; HD 2d10+6; hp 17; Mas 16;
Init +2; Spd 20 ft., burrow 20 ft.; Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 14 (+1
size, +2 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap –3; Atk +5 melee (1d4–1 plus poison,
bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4–1 plus poison, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
ft; SQ darkvision 60 ft., death touch (DC 14), l o w - l i g h t vision,
poison (DC 14), poison spray, tremorsense; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +5, Will
–1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 9, Cha 4.

**Skills:** Listen +3, Spot +6.

**Feats:** Weapon Finesse (bite).

**Advancement:** 3–5 HD (Small); 6–10 HD (Mediumsize); 11–15 HD (Large).

Advanced Mongolian Death Worm: CR 5; Medium-size magical beast; HD 6d10+24; hp
57; Mas 18; Init +1; Spd 20 ft., burrow 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 12,
flatfooted 13 (+2 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +6; Grap +7; Atk +7 melee (1d6+1 plus
poison, bite); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+1 plus poison, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 5 ft; SQ darkvision 60 ft., death touch (DC 17), low-light vision,
poison (DC 17), poison spray, tremorsense; AL none; SV Fort +9, Ref +6, Will
+1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 13, Con 18, Int 2, Wis 9, Cha 4.

**Skills:** Listen +5, Spot +8.

**Feats:** Alertness, Weapon Finesse (bite).

