---
title: Night Terror
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Night Terror

##  Night Terror

A night terror stands 5 to 6 feet tall and weighs between 120 and 200 pounds.
Although it is always horrific and feral, the details of the creature’s
appearance can vary widely. The typical specimen is almost impossible to
describe because it can alter its appearance based on the specific fears of
its victim.

###  Species Traits

Bonus Feat: A night terror gains Simple Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.

Chosen Victim (Ex): A night terror can feed on the terror of only one
individual at a time. Once it chooses its victim, it can choose another only
upon the death of the previous victim or by making a successful Will save (DC
25).

Fear Aura (Su): A night terror projects a frightful aura that affects all
creatures within 30 feet. Creatures in the area that can see the night terror
must make a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the night terror’s Hit Dice + its Charisma
modifier). Those that fail the save are shaken. The night terror’s chosen
victim is left cowering instead of shaken. Creatures that successfully save
against a night terror’s fear aura cannot be affected by that particular night
terror’s fear aura for 24 hours.

Immune to Fear (Ex): Night terrors are immune to fear effects.

Selective Invisibility (Su): Once the night terror has chosen its victim, only
that individual can see it. To everyone else, the creature is invisible, as
the invisibility spell (caster level 10th). If the night terror attacks
anyone, it becomes visible to all viewers until the next sunrise.

Skill Bonuses: A night terror gains a +4 species bonus on Intimidate and Sense
Motive checks during the night. It loses these bonuses during daylight hours.

Terrify (Su): Once per night as a full-round action, the night terror can try
to feed upon the fear of its chosen victim. The victim must make a successful
Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the night terror’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or
take 1d4 points of Wisdom damage. The night terror can attempt to use this
ability only if it has already successfully used its fear aura against the
target. If this Wisdom damage would cause the chosen victim’s Wisdom score to
fall below 0, the victim must make another Will save. Success leaves the
victim’s Wisdom score at 0; failure means the victim dies on the spot.

Vulnerability (Ex): Each night terror has a specific irrational weakness that
varies with the individual. For each night terror, roll on Table: Sources of
Weakness on. Regardless of its nature, the weakness has overpowering strength
(Will save DC 20) and causes the aversion effect.

Night Terror: CR 2; Medium-size fey; HD 3d6; hp 10; Mas 10; Init +5; Spd 30
ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 12, touch 11, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1
natural); BAB +1; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, claw) or +2 melee
(1d6+1/19–20, cleaver); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +2 melee
(1d6+1/19–20, cleaver) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ chosen
victim, fear aura (DC 14), immune to fear, low-light vision, selective
invisibility, terrify (DC 14), vulnerability (any one); AL evil; SV Fort +1,
Ref +2, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +3; Str 13, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 17.

**Skills:** Bluff +6, Climb +3, Disguise +5, Escape Artist +2, Hide +4,
Intimidate +13, Knowledge (behavioral science) +6, Listen +6, Move Silently
+5, Search +3, Sense Motive +13, Spot +6.

**Feats:** Improved Initiative, Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Possessions: Cleaver, collection of beheaded dolls.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Night Terror Dedicated Hero 2/Charismatic Hero 3: CR 7; Medium-size fey; HD
3d6 plus 2d6 plus 2d6; hp 24; Mas 10; Init +5; Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft.
(average); Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +3 class, +1
natural); BAB +3; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d4+1, claw) or +4 melee
(1d6+1/19–20, cleaver); Full Atk +4 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +4 melee
(1d6+1/19–20, cleaver) or +4 ranged (2d6, Colt M1911); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.;
Reach 5 ft.; SQ chosen victim, fear aura (DC 17), immune to fear, low-light
vision, selective invisibility, terrify (DC 17), vulnerability (laughter of
children); AL evil; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +9; AP 2; Rep +6; Str 13, Dex 13,
Con 10, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 18.

**Skills:** Bluff +10, Climb +3, Disguise +9, Escape Artist +2, Hide +4,
Intimidate +17, Knowledge (behavioral science) +12, Knowledge (popular
culture) +7, Listen +11, Move Silently +5, Read/ Write English, Search +3,
Sense Motive +13, Speak English, Spot +11.

**Feats:** Dodge, Improved Initiative, Point Blank Shot, Personal Firearms
Proficiency, Renown, Simple Weapon Proficiency.

Talents (Dedicated Hero): Empathy.

Talents (Charismatic Hero): Fast-talk, dazzle.

Possessions: Colt M1911 (.45 autoloader), cleaver, talking clown doll.

