---
title: Sand Slave (Template)
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Sand Slave (Template)

##  Sand Slave (Template)

Sand slaves (sometimes called sandmen or cyberslaves) are intelligent
creatures that have been transformed into cybernetic slaves of the etoile (see
the “Etoile” entry above). A sand slave looks much like it did before its
transformation, though it is stronger, faster, and healthier than before.

Although a sand slave is superficially similar to its previous self, its
biology has been significantly altered, and portions of its DNA have been
replaced. X-rays reveal the presence of hair-thin wires running throughout the
sand slave’s body and silicon structures that support bones and joints.
Microscopic examination of the creature’s blood reveals tiny
nannites—microscopic machines—busily altering their host’s body structure, and
brain scans reveal more bioelectric activity than normal.

Sand slaves retain the knowledge, skills, and personalities they had before
succumbing to the nannites, but their allegiances change. Now totally loyal to
the etoile, sand slaves only feign loyalty to those they once knew and loved,
using the trust of such people to their own advantage.

###  Template Traits

“Sand slave” is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal living
creature with an Intelligence score of 6 or higher that is susceptible to
disease (referred to hereafter as the “base creature”). The creature retains
its original type. It uses all the base creature’s statistics and special
abilities except as noted here.

Challenge Rating: Same as base creature +2.

Speed: The base creature’s speeds increase by +10 feet each.

Special Qualities: A sand slave retains all the special qualities of the base
creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.
Darkvision (Ex): A sand slave has darkvision to a range of 60 feet or the base
creature’s darkvision, whichever is better.

Electricity Resistance 10 (Ex): A sand slave ignores the first 10 points of
electricity damage from any single attack. If the base creature already has
electricity resistance, use the better value.

Fast Ability Healing 1 (Ex): A sand slave heals ability damage at the rate of
1 ability score point per damaged ability per round.

Fast Healing 3 (Ex): A sand slave heals 3 points of damage per round unless it
is reduced to –10 or fewer hit points. This ability does not enable the sand
slave to regrow or reattach severed body parts. If the base creature already
has fast healing, use the better value.

Fortification (Ex): A sand slave has a 50% chance to ignore the extra damage
from a critical hit.

Fugue (Ex): Once per day as a free action, a sand slave may attempt a
Constitution check (DC 20). Success indicates that the sand slave has forced
its nannites into hyperproductivity, thereby gaining an extra attack or move
action each round for 1d8+2 rounds.

Hot Running (Ex): Once per day as a free action, a sand slave can make a
Constitution check (DC 15) to reverse the effects of fatigue and nonlethal
damage. A successful check negates all nonlethal damage the sand slave has
sustained and reduces fatigue or exhaustion as if the sand slave had rested
for a full day.

Immunities (Ex): The sand slave is immune to disease and poison. The nannites
in its body fight off all diseases, including other nannite infections, and
break down all poisons before they can take effect.

Network Mind (Ex): A sand slave is automatically aware of the position and
general emotional status of any other sand slaves within 200 feet. All sand
slaves within that range that can see one another are in constant telepathic
communication. If one is aware of a particular threat, they all are. If one
sand slave in a particular group is not flatfooted, none of them are. No sand
slave in such a group is considered flanked unless they all are.

Self-Destruct (Ex): When reduced to –10 hit points or below, a sand slave’s
body immediately turns into a pile of dust. At any time, a sand slave can
willfully destroy itself by taking an attack action to make a Constitution
check (DC 10). Success indicates that the sand slave self-destructs as above.

Stasis (Ex): Once per day as a free action, a sand slave can attempt a
Constitution check (DC 15). Success dramatically slows the creature’s
metabolism for up to 1 hour. During this time, the sand slave does not need to
breathe, and it lacks a heartbeat and normal body temperature. If it does not
move, it appears dead to casual inspection, though a blood test or successful
Treat Injury check (DC 20) reveals that it is still alive. While in stasis,
the sand slave does not take damage from prolonged exposure to environmental
heat or cold, and the time spent in stasis does not count toward the time
limit that the sand slave can go without water or food before taking damage.
While in stasis, a sand slave can act normally, except that it cannot use its
hot running or fugue abilities, and it does not heal ability or hit point
damage.

The sand slave can end the stasis at any time before its duration runs out as
a free action.

Telepathy (Ex): A sand slave can communicate its thoughts and desires to any
etoile or sand slave within 200 feet that it can see, regardless of
intervening matter such as glass. The target creature “hears” the sand slave’s
thoughts in whatever language it can most easily understand. However, it
cannot communicate thoughts back to the sand slave unless it also has
telepathy.

Allegiances: A sand slave is totally dedicated to the etoile, but when not
acting under any particular orders, it maintains the allegiances that the base
creature had. This allegiance hierarchy allows the etoile to use sand slaves
as sleeper agents. Sand slaves follow the orders of all etoile and give
precedence to the last orders they received.

Saves: Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.

Ability Scores: A sand slave gains the following ability increases: Str +2,
Dex +2.

**Skills:** A sand slave gains a +4 species bonus on Bluff checks.

**Feats:** A sand slave gains Improved Damage Threshold as a bonus feat.

Sand Slave Terrorist (Human Tough Ordinary 3/Smart Ordinary 3): CR 7; Medium-
size humanoid; HD 3d10+6 plus 3d6+6; hp 39; Mas 18; Init +2; Spd 40 ft.;
Defense 17, touch 15, flat-footed 15 (+2 Dex, +3 class, +2 light undercover
shirt); BAB +3; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +5
melee (1d4+2, pistol whip) or +5 ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10); Full Atk +5
melee (1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +5 melee (1d4+2, pistol whip) or +5
ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ darkvision 60
ft., electricity resistance 20, fast ability healing 1, fast healing 3,
fortification, fugue, hot running, immunities, network mind, selfdestruct,
stasis, telepathy; AL etoile; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +3; AP 3; Rep +2; Str
14, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 8.

Occupation: Military (class skills: Navigate, Pilot).

**Skills:** Bluff +7, Computer Use +5, Craft (chemical) +7, Craft (electronic)
+7, Craft (mechanical) +7, Craft (structural) +7, Demolitions +8, Disguise +3,
Drive +5, Forgery +6, Gather Information +1, Intimidate +3, Knowledge (current
events) +6, Knowledge (tactics) +5, Knowledge (technology) +6, Knowledge
(theology and philosophy) +4, Navigate +4, Pilot +5, Profession +4, Read/
Write English, Repair +4, Research +5, Search +4, Speak English.

**Feats:** Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light),
Deceptive, Improved Damage Threshold, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Point
Blank Shot, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Possessions: Tactical vest, Beretta 92F (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of 9mm
ammunition, Beretta M3P (12-gauge shotgun) 10 12-gauge shotgun rounds, tonfa,
various gear and personal possessions.

