---
title: Sewer Sludge
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
###  Species Traits

Blindsight (Ex): A sewer sludge is blind but can ascertain all creatures and
objects within 30 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range,
all targets have total concealment with respect to the sewer sludge.

Camouflage (Ex): A motionless sewer sludge looks like nothing more than a pile
of rotting garbage. A successful Spot check (DC 15) is required to recognize
it as a creature.

Constrict (Ex): A sewer sludge deals slam damage (1d6+1 for a typical
specimen) with a successful grapple check against a target at least one size
category smaller than itself.

Disease (Ex): The touch of a sewer sludge carries typhoid bacillus (Fort DC 13
negates; incubation period 1d3 weeks; initial 1d4 Con; secondary 1d4 Con).

Immunities (Ex): A sewer sludge is immune to electricity and cold damage. If a
cold attack deals damage equal to or greater than the sewer sludge’s
Constitution score, the creature is affected as though by a slow spell.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the sewer sludge must hit an opponent
at least one size category smaller than itself with its slam attack. If it
gets a hold, it automatically deals slam damage each round that the hold is
maintained, and it can constrict in the same round.

Ooze: A sewer sludge has the traits and immunities common to oozes.

Stench (Ex): A creature within 10 feet of a sewer sludge must make a
successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the sludge’s Hit Dice + its
Constitution modifier) or be nauseated. The nausea persists for as long as the
creature remains within 10 feet of the sewer sludge. A creature that leaves
and reenters the area must make another save.

Sewer Sludge: CR 5; Medium-size ooze; HD 4d10+14; hp 36; Mas —; Init +0; Spd
20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 10, flat-footed 10; BAB +3; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee
(1d6+1 plus disease, slam); Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+1 plus disease, slam); FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ blindsight 30 ft., disease, camouflage,
constrict 1d6+1, immunities, improved grab, ooze, stench (DC 13); AL none; SV
Fort +2, Ref +1, Will –4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 10, Con 13, Int —, Wis 1,
Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 5–8 HD (Large); 9–12 HD (Huge).

Advanced Sewer Sludge: CR 7; Large ooze; HD 8d10+39; hp 83; Mas —; Init +0;
Spd 20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 8, flatfooted 10 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +2 natural);
BAB +6; Grap +15; Atk +10 melee (1d8+7 plus disease, slam); Full Atk +10/+5
melee (1d8+7 plus disease, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ
blindsight 30 ft., disease, camouflage, constrict 1d6+1, immunities, improved
grab, ooze, stench (DC 17); AL none; SV Fort +5, Ref +1, Will –3; AP 0; Rep
+0; Str 21, Dex 8, Con 17, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

