---
title: Skin Feaster
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Skin Feaster

##  Skin Feaster

###  Species Traits

Automatic Languages: A skin feaster can read, write, and speak any one
language that it could in life.

Bonus Feat: A skin feaster gains Simple Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.

Flesh Weakness (Ex): A skin feaster that successfully deals damage to an
opponent with its necrotizing touch attack must spend its next turn devouring
the flesh that has fallen from that opponent’s body. It takes no other actions
during this time but can defend itself normally. It can consume an amount of
flesh equivalent to 3 points of Constitution damage (or drain; see below) per
round.

Necrotizing Touch (Su): With a successful melee touch attack, the skin feaster
causes lumps of flesh to fall from the target’s body, dealing 1d3 points of
Constitution damage; a successful Fortitude save negates (DC 10 + 1/2 the skin
feaster’s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). On a failed save, the target must
attempt a second Fortitude save at the same DC. Failure indicates that 1 point
of the Constitution damage already taken becomes Constitution drain instead.

Skin Regrowth (Su): If a skin feaster manages to eat an amount of flesh
equivalent to 6 points of Constitution damage (or drain; see above) in any
24-hour period, it begins to regrow its skin. This process requires 1d6 hours.
For the next 1d3 days thereafter, the skin feaster appears just as it did
before its death, excluding scars, moles, or other minor skin imperfections.
Only the creature’s appearance changes—it is still an undead with all of its
usual species traits except the flesh weakness, which is not active while the
skin feaster wears its new skin. Once this period is over, the skin feaster’s
regrown skin sloughs off, restoring it to its usual appearance and
reactivating its flesh weakness.

Undead: Skin feasters have the traits and immunities common to undead.

Skin Feaster: CR 3; Medium-size undead; HD 4d12; hp 26; Mas —; Init +3; Spd 30
ft.; Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 13 (+3 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap
+2; Atk +2 melee (1d4, claw); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4, claw) or +5 ranged; FS 5
ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ flesh weakness, necrotizing touch (DC 13), skin
regrowth, undead; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10,
Dex 16, Con —, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 12.

**Skills:** Climb +6, Jump +6, Listen +8, Read/Write Language (any one), Speak
Language (any one), Spot +8.

**Feats:** Simple Weapons Proficiency.

**Advancement:** 5–8 HD (Medium-size); 9–15 HD (Large).

Advanced Skin Feaster: CR 5; Large undead; HD 9d12; hp 58; Mas —; Init +2; Spd
30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 11, flatfooted 14 (–1 size, +2 Dex, +5 natural); BAB
+4; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d6+6, claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+6, claw) or
+5 ranged; FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ flesh weakness, necrotizing
touch (DC 15), skin regrowth, undead; AL evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +8; AP
0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 14, Con —, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 12.

**Skills:** Climb +9, Jump +9, Listen +10, Read/Write (any one), Speak (any
one), Spot +10.

**Feats:** Agile Riposte, Dodge, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

