---
title: Toxic Sludge
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
###  Species Traits

Acid (Ex): A toxic sludge is composed of caustic chemicals that dissolve any
substance except stone and metal. A toxic sludge’s slam attack deals 1d4
points of acid damage in addition to the normal bludgeoning damage.

Blindsight (Ex): A toxic sludge is blind but can ascertain all creatures and
objects within 40 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range,
all targets have total concealment with respect to the toxic sludge.

Expansion (Ex): A toxic sludge absorbs the bodies of creatures it has killed
in battle. This process takes a number of rounds depending on the size of the
corpse: Diminutive or smaller 1, Tiny 2, Small 4, Medium-size 8, Large 16,
Huge 32, Gargantuan 64, and Colossal 128. The sludge grows by 1 Hit Die for
every 16 rounds it spends consuming bodies, to a maximum of 45 Hit Dice.

Immunities (Ex): Toxic sludges are immune to acid, electricity, and cold
damage. If a cold attack deals damage equal to or greater than a toxic
sludge’s Constitution score, the toxic sludge is affected as though by a slow
spell.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the toxic sludge must hit an opponent
at least one size category smaller than itself with its slam attack. If it
gets a hold, it automatically deals slam damage each round that the hold is
maintained, and it can constrict in the same round.

Ooze: A toxic sludge has the traits and immunities common to oozes.

Toxic Fumes (Ex): Any creature that comes within 10 feet of a toxic sludge
must make a successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the toxic sludge’s Hit Dice
+ its Constitution modifier) or take 1d4 points of Strength damage. A new save
must be made each round a creature remains within 10 feet of the toxic sludge.

Toxic Sludge: CR 7; Large ooze; HD 6d10+27; hp 60; Mas —; Init –2; Spd 20 ft.;
Defense 7, touch 7, flat-footed 7 (–1 size, –2 Dex); BAB +4; Grap +10; Atk +5
melee (1d8+3, slam plus 1d4 acid); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+3, slam plus 1d4
acid); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ acid, blindsight, constrict,
expansion, immunities, improved grab, ooze, toxic fumes (DC 15); AL none; SV
Fort +4, Ref +0, Will –3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 7, Con 14, Int —, Wis 1,
Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 6–12 HD (Large); 13–18 HD (Huge); 19–31 HD (Gargantuan);
32–45 HD (Colossal).

Advanced Toxic Sludge: CR 12; Gargantuan ooze; HD 20d10+150; hp 260; Mas —;
Init –2; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 3, flat-footed 10 (–4 size, –3 Dex, +7
natural); BAB +15; Grap +37; Atk +21 melee (2d8+10 plus 1d4 acid, slam); Full
Atk +21/+16/+11 melee (2d8+10 plus 1d4 acid, slam); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach
15 ft.; SQ acid, blindsight, expansion, immunities, improved grab, ooze, toxic
fumes (DC 26); AL none; SV Fort +12, Ref +3, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31,
Dex 5, Con 22, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1.

**Skills:** None.

**Feats:** None.

