---
title: Yeti
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [Menaces](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Yeti

## Yeti

A yeti is a large, white-furred, human-shaped creature that stands about 8
feet tall and weighs approximately 300 pounds. Its long fur is heaviest around
the head and shoulders, and its hands and feet are wide and flat. Layers of
fat insulate its body, allowing it to survive and even thrive in subzero
conditions. Although a yeti can stand and walk upright, it tends to hunch over
and use its hands and feet, in the manner of a gorilla, to navigate ice floes
and rocky terrain. Its eyes are either blue or colorless, and it has an extra
pair of transparent eyelids that allow it to see even in blowing snow.

### Species Traits

Cold Subtype (Ex): A yeti is immune to cold damage. It takes 50% more damage
from fire attacks.

Constrict (Ex): A yeti deals normal claw damage (treat as bludgeoning damage)
plus 2d6 points of cold damage with a successful grapple check against a
target at least one size category smaller than itself.

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the yeti must hit an opponent at
least one size category smaller than itself with its claw attack. If it gets a
hold, it automatically deals claw damage each round that the hold is
maintained, and it can constrict in the same round.

Skill Bonus: The yeti’s white fur grants it a +15 species bonus on Hide checks
made in snowy conditions.

Yeti: CR 3; Large monstrous humanoid (cold); HD 4d8+4; hp 22; Mas 12; Init +1;
Spd 40 ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flatfooted 13 (–1 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural);
BAB +4; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d6+4, claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+4, 2
claws); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold subtype, constrict,
darkvision 60 ft., improved grab; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +5; AP 0;
Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 9, Wis 12, Cha 11.

**Skills:** Climb +10, Hide +2 (+17 in snowy conditions), Move Silently +6,
Speak Giant, Survival +7.

**Feats:** None.

**Advancement:** 5–8 HD (Large); 9–12 HD (Huge).

Abominable Snowman (Advanced Yeti): CR 6; Huge monstrous humanoid (cold); HD
12d8+36; hp 90; Mas 16; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 15, touch 8, flat-footed
15 (–2 size, +7 natural); BAB +12; Grap +28; Atk +18 melee (2d4+8, claw); Full
Atk +18 melee (2d4+8, 2 claws); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold
subtype, constrict, darkvision 60 ft., improved grab; AL any; SV Fort +7, Ref
+8, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 11, Con 16, Int 9, Wis 12, Cha 11.

**Skills:** Climb +14, Hide +3 (+18 in snowy conditions), Move Silently +10,
Speak Giant, Survival +12.

**Feats:** Power Attack, Track.

