---
title: Zeikune
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Menaces D20 ](/menaces.d20) > [ Menaces ](/menaces.d20/menaces) > Zeikune

##  Zeikune

###  Species Traits

Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the zeikune must hit an opponent with
its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage and
liquefaction damage (see below) each round that the hold is maintained.

Liquefaction (Ex): Once the zeikune gets a hold of its opponent (see Improved
Grab above), it begins injecting fluids that dissolve the victim’s organs,
dealing 1d4 points of Constitution damage per round. If the creature dies or
its Constitution score drops to 0 as a result of this process, the creature’s
organs turn to slush, and the ability damage becomes ability drain. The victim
dies, at which point the zeikune can begin sucking the liquefied organs from
the creature’s body (see Siphon Fluids, below).

Psionics (Sp): At will—combat precognition (always active), mental blast,
object reading; 3/day—inflict pain, levitate. Manifester level 5th; save DC 10
+ zeikune’s key ability modifier + power level.

Siphon Fluids (Ex): Once a zeikune liquefies the internal organs of a
creature, it can spend a fullround action siphoning the fluids from the dead
creature’s body, leaving behind a shriveled husk. The fluid not only provides
sustenance but also heals the zeikune of 3d6 points of damage and 1d6 points
of ability damage (per ability).

Zeikune: CR 4; Medium-size aberration; HD 5d8+5; hp 27; Mas 13; Init +6; Spd
fly 40 ft. (perfect); Defense 17, touch 13, flat-footed 15 (+2 Dex, +4
natural, +1 insight); BAB +3; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (2d4, bite); Full Atk +3
melee (2d4, bite) or +5 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision
60 ft., improved grab, liquefaction, power resistance 17, psionics, siphon
fluids; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +3, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 14,
Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 16.

**Skills:** Hide +9, Listen +8, Move Silently +9, Spot +8.

**Feats:** Improved Initiative, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

**Advancement:** By character class.

Zeikune Smart Hero 2: CR 6; Medium-size aberration; HD 5d8+5 plus 2d6+2; hp
36; Mas 13; Init +6; Spd fly 40 ft. (perfect); Defense 18, touch 14, flat-
footed 16 (+2 Dex, +1 class, +4 natural, +1 insight); BAB +4; Grap +4; Atk +4
melee (2d4, bite) or +6 ranged (2d6, Ruger Service-Six); Full Atk +4 melee
(2d4, bite) or +6 ranged (2d6, Ruger Service-Six); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, liquefaction, power resistance 17,
psionics, siphon fluids; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 1; Rep +1;
Str 11, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 16.

**Skills:** Computer Use +8, Disable Device +6, Hide +11, Listen +10, Move
Silently +11, Read/Write English, Repair +5, Research +6, Search +6, Spot +10.

**Feats:** Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Personal Firearms
Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.

Talent (Smart Hero): Savant (Computer Use).

Possessions: Ruger Service-Six (.38S revolver).

