---
title: Robots
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Future D20 ](/future.d20.srd) > Robots

## Robots

### Evolution Of Robotics

Progress Level 5: Though crude automata have existed before this era, PL 5 is
the widely accepted dawn of robotics, due to the development of the
programmable manipulator arm in 1954. The field rapidly advanced, hand in hand
with computer technology, until a crude form of artificial intelligence
allowed for the creation of robots with the ability to solve basic problems on
their own. Such robots are still generally confined to military and scientific
applications, but simple, programmable robots are available as high-tech
“toys.” Humanoid robots exist, though they qualify only by dint of their
general shape; robots in the shape of animals are also common.

Progress Level 6: The versatility of robots continues to improve throughout
this Progress Level. Robots can make choices from among a multitude of
options, and specific components like legs and hands become more commonplace.
Emergency services routinely use specialized robots to handle dangerous
situations, and many households include “smart” appliances that cook, clean,
patrol, and even babysit. In some cultures, robots are more common than pets.
Truly bipedal robots finally become feasible for widespread use, paving the
way for the first androids—robots that resemble and behave more or less like
humans (or animals), but which are still easily distinguishable from the real
thing.

Progress Level 7: Robots have become so common by this era that they appear in
nearly every sector of daily life. Robots teach schoolchildren, maintain
hazardous equipment, and fight wars. Miniature electroflex
technology—artificial muscles—arrives, paving the way for the first lifelike
androids. Bioreplica robots are in limited use, however; they raise so many
legal questions that most manufacturers stick to the more easily identifiable
non-replica androids. The legal ramifications do not extend to animal
bioreplicas, however, and “synthetic pets” are both common and popular.

Progress Level 8: Advances in metallurgy enable robotics designers to create
“liquid-state” robots: machines that can alter their physical form into nearly
any shape desired. Applications involving such robots are mostly confined to
space exploration, but the military and intelligence communities show great
interest.

### Robots As Heroes

This section presents two types of anthropomorphic robots that can be played
as heroes: the biodroid (more commonly referred to as an “android”) and the
bioreplica (also known as a “synthetic”). Although neither is truly sentient,
their artificial intelligence allows them to make independent decisions and
learn through experience. Biodroids are present in societies with technology
of Progress Level 6 or higher, while bioreplicas are products of Progress
Level 7 ingenuity.

A biodroid or bioreplica hero begins play as a 1st-level Strong, Fast, Tough,
Smart, Dedicated, or Charismatic hero. Whereas other robots may only advance
as Ordinary characters, biodroid and bioreplica heroes gain levels just as
human characters do. They may even choose to take levels in advanced classes
for which they’re eligible. There are advantages and drawbacks to playing a
biodroid or bioreplica hero; these are discussed in-depth below.

<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <!-- Row 1 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/biodroid" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Biodroid</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/bioreplica" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Bioreplica</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/non.heroic.robots" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Non-Herioc Robots</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 2 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.frames" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Robot Frames</a>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <!-- Row 1 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.frames/armature" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Armature</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.frames/biodroid" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Biodroid</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.frames/biomorph" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Biomorph</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 2 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.frames/bioreplica" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Bioreplica</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.frames/liquid.state" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Liquid State</a>
  </div>
</div>

## [Locomotion](/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion)

#### PL 5
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <!-- Row 1 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/forced.air" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Forced Air</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/legs.multiple" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Legs (Multiple)</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/propeller.air" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Propeller (Air)</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 2 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/propeller.water" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Propeller (Water)</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/rotor" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Rotor</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/stationary" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Stationary</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 3 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/track" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Track</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/treads" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Treads</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/wheels" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Wheels</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 6
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/casters" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Casters</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/legs.pair" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Legs (Pair)</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 7
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/thruster" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Thruster</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 8
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/locomotion/inductor" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Inductor</a>
  </div>
</div>

## [Manipulators](/future.d20.srd/robots/manipulators)

<div class="my-6">
  <details class="group rounded-lg bg-slate-100/30 dark:bg-slate-800/30 border border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <!-- The change is on this line below -->
    <summary class="flex cursor-pointer list-none items-center justify-between px-4 py-2">
      <h2 class="text-2xl font-medium">
        <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor" class="hover:underline">Armor</a>
      </h2>
      <span class="transition group-open:rotate-180">
        <svg fill="none" height="24" shape-rendering="geometricPrecision" stroke="currentColor" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" stroke-width="1.5" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="24"><path d="M6 9l6 6 6-6"></path></svg>
      </span>
    </summary>
    <div class="p-4 border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
      <h4 class="font-semibold">PL 5</h4>
      <div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
        <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/alumisteel" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Alumisteel</a>
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/duraplastic" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Duraplastic</a>
        </div>
      </div>
      <h4 class="font-semibold mt-6">PL 6</h4>
      <div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
        <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/duralloy" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Duralloy</a>
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/resilium" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Resilium</a>
        </div>
      </div>
      <h4 class="font-semibold mt-6">PL 7</h4>
      <div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
        <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/crystal.carbon" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Crystal Carbon</a>
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/neovulcanium" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Neovulcanium</a>
        </div>
      </div>
      <h4 class="font-semibold mt-6">PL 8</h4>
      <div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
        <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/megatanium" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Megatanium</a>
          <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/armor/reactive" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Reactive</a>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </details>
</div>

## [Sensors](/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors)

#### PL 5
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.i" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Class I</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.ii" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Class II</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.iii" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Class III</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 6
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.iv" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Class IV</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.v" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Class V</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.vi" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Class VI</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 7
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.vii" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Class VII</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.viii" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Class VIII</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 8
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/class.ix" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Class IX</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sensors/nerve.web" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Nerve Web</a>
  </div>
</div>

## [Skills](/future.d20.srd/robots/skills)

#### PL 5
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/skills/skill.chip" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Skill Chip</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 6
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/skills/language.chip" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Language Chip</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/skills/skill.progit" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Skill Progit</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 7
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/skills/skill.net" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Skill Net</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 8
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/skills/skill.web" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Skill Web</a>
  </div>
</div>


## [Feat Software](/future.d20.srd/robots/feat.software)

#### PL 6
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/feat.software/feat.progit" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Feat Progit</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 7
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/feat.software/feat.net" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Feat Net</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 8
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/feat.software/feat.web" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Feat Web</a>
  </div>
</div>


## [Ability Upgrades](/future.d20.srd/robots/ability.upgrades)

#### PL 5
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/ability.upgrades/strength.upgrade" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Strength Upgrade</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 6
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/ability.upgrades/dexterity.upgrade" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Dexterity Upgrade</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/ability.upgrades/intelligence.upgrade" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Intelligence Upgrade</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 7
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/ability.upgrades/charisma.upgrade" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Charisma Upgrade</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/ability.upgrades/wisdom.upgrade" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Wisdom Upgrade</a>
  </div>
</div>


## [Robot Accessories](/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories)

#### PL 5
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <!-- Row 1 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/av.recorder" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">AV Recorder</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/av.transmitter" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">AV Transmitter</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/fire.extinguisher" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Fire Extinguisher</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 2 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/integrated.cell.phone" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Integrated Cell Phone</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/internal.storage.unit" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Internal Storage Unit</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/loading.mechanism" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Loading Mechanism</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 3 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/remote.control.unit" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Remote Control Unit</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/robolink" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Robolink</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/tool.mount" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Tool Mount</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 4 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/vocalizer" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Vocalizer</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/weapon.mount" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Weapon Mount</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 6
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <!-- Row 1 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/integrated.cell.phone" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Integrated Videophone</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/magnetic.feet" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Magnetic Feet</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/self.destruct.mechanism" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Self-Destruct System</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 2 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/survival.array" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Survivor Array</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 7
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <!-- Row 1 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/holo.screen" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Holo Screen</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/inertial.inhibitor" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Inertial Inhibitor</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/polyvox" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Polyvox</a>
  </div>
  <!-- Row 2 -->
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/self.repair.unit" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Self-Repair Unit</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 8
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/photon.screen" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">Photon Screen</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.accessories/robot.repair.unit" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">Robot Repair Unit</a>
  </div>
</div>

## [Robot Weapon Rules](/future.d20.srd/robots/robot.weapon.rules)

## [Sample Robots](/future.d20.srd/robots/sample.robots)

#### PL 6
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sample.robots/spot.security.robot" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">"Spot" Security Robot</a>
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sample.robots/ape.police.robot" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3 border-t lg:border-t-0 lg:border-l border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">APE Police Robot</a>
  </div>
</div>

#### PL 7
<div class="border-t border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap border-b border-slate-200 dark:border-slate-700">
    <a href="/future.d20.srd/robots/sample.robots/nuyu.doppleganger.robot" class="flex items-center h-16 px-4 hover:underline w-full lg:w-1/3">"NUYU" Doppleganger Robot</a>
  </div>
</div>