---
title: Commission for Research into Unexplained Phenomena
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Organizations ](/arcana.d20.srd/organizations) > Commission for Research into Unexplained Phenomena

##  Commission for Research into Unexplained Phenomena

Mundanes may not be able to recognize creatures of Shadow for what they are,
but they do notice the rise in unusual incidents and unidentifiable materials.
In response to a recent sudden increase in the number of reports being filed
with police on such varied subjects as ghosts, UFOs, monstrous humanoids, and
psychic episodes the United States Congress decided to take action. The Joint
Committee on Homeland Security created a special commission to do in-depth
fact finding.

The senators and representatives called into service one of the country’s top
experts on the exotic species, Dr. Astrid Kolgrim, to lead the Commission for
Research into Unexplained Phenomena, usually just referred to as C.R.U.P.
Through C.R.U.P., Dr. Kolgrim can commandeer personnel and materials from
various government agencies including the FBI, Center for Disease Control,
Office of Homeland Security, Immigration and Naturalization Services, and
Internal Revenue Service among many others. She usually works with a small
team of scientists and agents, but transfers them out every month or two so
that she is the only truly permanent member of the Commission.

Several government organizations (including the NSA and the Departments of
Justice and the Interior) are opposed to C.R.U.P., or more correctly, they
desire that Dr. Kolgrim be placed under their direct control rather than
wandering around as a free agent. Meanwhile, C.R.U.P. goes on investigating
all sorts of incidents related to Shadow. Dr. Kolgrim is able to recognize
creatures of Shadow for what they are. Unfortunately, the Senators and
Representatives for the most part are not. Still, they consider the
information C.R.U.P. gathers to be useful, even if they feel differently about
the conclusions the Commission draws.

It is certainly possible for heroes to be recruited as members of C.R.U.P.,
especially if they work for other branches of the government. However it is
more likely for them to form a good working relationship with Dr. Kolgrim
after their paths cross on different occasions. On the other hand, it is also
possible that they might develop a personal antagonism with the doctor if
things go badly.

**Commission Archives**

Members of C.R.U.P. have access to the U.S. government files on all manner of
unexplained phenomena, as well as hoaxes and attempts to defraud or hoodwink
the American people. Any information gathered by the FBI, CIA, NSC, or other
publicly-known branches of the government are open to their inspection. (At
the GM’s discretion, C.R.U.P. may not have access to files from Department- 7,
the Paranormal Science and Investigation Agency, and other highly classified
organizations.)

Making use of the archives provides a +4 equipment bonus on all Research and
Knowledge checks.

**Dr. Astrid Kolgrim**

With the rise of Shadow, the governments of the world have taken a keen
interest in evaluating any threats or benefits to this encroachment. Agents,
military brass, and scientists alike have begun documenting an ever-growing
number of reports of strange creatures, bizarre explosions, and acts that can
only be described as “miracles.” Dr. Astrid Kolgrim is one of the scientists
who studies the rise of Shadow. She is a brilliant biologist who made her way
through various academic and private organizations, studying a number of rare
and exotic species. Dr. Kogrim’s work finally caught the attention of the
Federal Government, who tapped her to head a team dedicated to researching
creatures of Shadow.

Astrid is a tall, stunning African-American woman with strong features. She
has long, glossy hair (often worn up to keep it out of her way). Although not
oblivious to her looks, Dr. Kolgrim has no time or patience for those
interested only in her appearance. In many ways, she follows the stereotype of
a scientist —analytical, humorless, and no-nonsense. However, due to the
subject matter with which she deals, Dr. Kolgrim maintains an open mind,
realizing that science has yet to answer many of the questions raised in this
new Age of Shadow.

Dr. Kolgrim spends most of her time in the field with small teams of
assistants. She receives leads through a variety of sources, including local
police departments, the FBI, the Center for Disease Control, and other
government agencies. Her mission is to find out as much information about
creatures of Shadow as possible—their abilities, strengths, weaknesses, and
any way that they can be exploited by the government. She has personally led
expeditiong to capture specimens of numerous Shadow species and take them back
to the laboratory for study.

Dr. Astrid Kolgrim: Smart 4/Field Scientist 7; CR 11; Medium humanoid; HD 4d6
plus 7d8; hp 52; Mas 10; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 17, flat-
footed 18 (+4 smart defense, +3 class, +1 light undercover shirt); BAB +5;
Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike); Full Atk +5 melee (1d3
nonlethal, unarmed strike), or +6 ranged (2d6, Glock 20), or +5 ranged (1d2
and special, air rifle); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; AL US Government,
Science; SV Fort +5, Ref +8, Will +7; AP 11, Rep +4; Str 10, Dex 11, Con 10,
Int 18, Wis 16, Cha 16.

Occupation: Doctor (class skills: Knowledge [behavioral sciences] and
Knowledge [earth and life sciences]).

Skills: Computer Use +14, Craft (chemical) +17, Craft (pharmaceutical) +17,
Craft (writing) +9, Decipher Script +13, Demolitions +9, Drive +4, Investigate
+14, Knowledge (behavioral sciences) +21, Knowledge (earth and life sciences)
+25, Read/Write English, Read/Write Spanish, Speak English, Speak Spanish,
Research +20.

Feats: Defensive Martial Arts, Educated (Knowledge [behavioral sciences] and
Knowledge [earth and life sciences]), Heroic Surge, Lightning Reflexes,
Medical Expert, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Point Blank Shot, Simple
Weapons Proficiency, Studious, Surgery.

Talents (Smart Hero): Savant (Knowledge [earth and life sciences]), plan.

Talents (Dedicated Hero): Healing knack.

Talents (Field Scientist): Smart Defense, scientific improvisation, skill
mastery (Computer Use, Knowledge [behavioral science], Knowledge [earth and life sciences], Craft [pharmaceutical], Craft [chemical], Research, Treat
Injury), minor breakthrough (Knowledge [earth and life sciences]).

Possessions: Glock 20 (10mm autoloader), 50 rounds of 10mm ammunition, air
rifle, 20 tranquilizer rounds, light undercover shirt*, trauma kit, chemistry
kit.

*Not proficient in armor. 

