---
title: Department-7
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Department-7 is a private institution that recruits talented individuals who
are not only aware of the rise of Shadow, but are willing to act for the
common good of both mundane and magical beings. Funding for the organization
filters through a number of shell corporations, but research suggests that it
all comes from a single benefactor. This person, however, has gone to great
lengths (both mundane and magical) to ensure that the data trail becomes too
confusing for even the most persistent investigator to follow.

The only person in the Department-7 infrastructure that the agents know of is
Ms. Fellowes, a dark-haired, officious young woman with a slight British
accent. Using arcane magic she occasionally projects her image or teleports
necessary information and materials into a team’s base. She never, however,
meets agents in person and no one knows where her office is located.

Department-7 asks its operatives to investigate new expressions of Shadow,
manage and maintain relationships between the mundane world and various
enclaves of Shadowkind, and to deal with violent or destructive creatures of
Shadow (or to protect benevolent creatures of Shadow from hostile mundanes).
In the absence of an assigned task, agents are free to do whatever they like,
but Department-7 demands that they maintain an appropriate public profile (in
other words, that they not do anything that would break the trust that the
organization has in either mundane or Shadow circles).

It is completely appropriate for heroes to belong to Department-7.

**Departmental Gear**

Department-7 may not be the richest organization in the world, nor is it the
best networked, but it does provide agents with some of the most unique
equipment in the field. Besides having access to all publicly available
mundane and magic items, members of Department-7 each receive the following:

Synchronicity Watch: A wrist or pocket watch that allows agents to move
through crowds more easily than usual. Once per day, the watch can be used to
activate a limited version of the synchronicity spell. It works exactly the
same way as the spell except that the duration is only 10 rounds.

Type: Wondrous item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 32; Weight: —.

Secret Pockets: Each agent may choose one garment (pants, windbreaker,
overcoat, etc.) and have up to two pockets of the garment function as
described in the secret pocket spell.

Type: Wondrous item (magic); Caster Level: 5th; Purchase DC: 34; Weight: 1 lb.

Daylight Flares: Every agent receives six sticks that look very much like
unsharpened pencils. When a stick is snapped in two, the tip of the bottom
half glows as thought it was the target of a daylight spell. This effect lasts
for 20 minutes.

Type: Wondrous item (magic); Caster Level: 2nd; Purchase DC: 27; Weight —.

