---
title: Mindwreckers
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
The mundane world is not quite sure how to treat this organization. On the one
hand, it is a radical group that regularly is involved in disturbing the
peace, assault, torture, and even extremely violent terrorist activities. On
the other hand, they do it all in the name of “freedom of the mind,” and claim
to be “psychic warriors” and “the world’s elite psionicists.”

The Mindwreckers believe that mental powers are the world’s most avant-garde
art form, and that they should be left alone to allow their artistry to
flourish. However, their “artistry” seems to focus mainly on hurting innocent
people and destroying public and private property. They believe that anyone
who does not have mental powers is merely clay or canvas to be molded by a
skilled craftsperson. Often they videotape their criminal activities to add to
their portfolios. What’s more, they brand anyone whom they believe to have
psychic abilities yet opposes their activities a “mindcriminal,” and target
that person and his or her family, business, and property for especially
destructive “performances.”

Whether these are a bunch of extremely violent, delusional delinquents or
actually a psionic terrorist group depends entirely on the GM’s perspective on
psionics in the campaign. Either way, the Mindwreckers are a dangerous
organization of extremists who live to cause mayhem in the lives of the people
they call “little brains.” As such, the Mindwreckers is not and organization
that any hero should even consider joining.

The Mindwreckers love publicity, but they hate when unexpected witnesses ruin
their performances by taking information to the authorities. As a result, the
group has pioneered a new psionic power that allows them to block the memories
of anyone whose lips they want to seal temporarily. Members of the
Mindwreckers have access to the following psionic power:

**Memory Block**

Charisma

Level: Telepath 4; Display: Visual, Audible; Manifestation Time: 1 action;
Range: Touch; Target: One living creature; Duration: 1 day + 1 hour/level;
Saving Throw: Will negates; Power Resistance: Yes; Power Points: 10

You form a psionic barrier within the target’s memory, creating near total
amnesia. The target cannot remember his name or any pertinent facts about his
life. It has no effect on his ability to form new memories.

Memory block has no effect on the target’s physical skills and abilities;
through instinct, he is able to do everything he was before. GMs may require
an Intelligence check (DC 15 + assailant’s Telepath level) before allowing a
character to use particularly complex pieces of equipment.

For the duration of the memory block, victims cannot perform any Knowledge
checks and have a penalty to any Research checks equal to the Telepath level
of the character who manifested this effect.

