---
title: Paranormal Science and Investigation Agency
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---
Since the 1950s, various branches of the U.S. government have been
experimenting with different permutations of and uses for mental powers. From
CIA attempts to create “invisible” spies to Army experiments using
psychotropic pharmaceuticals to FDA investigations into psychic healing,
they’ve all come up with nothing.

Or have they?

What the public does not know is that all the information (and many of the
personnel) from these different attempts have all been transferred to a secret
organization whose existence is buried between line items in the national
budget. The Paranormal Science and Investigation Agency (PSI for short) has
been working behind the scenes for several decades.

PSI’s charter is to protect the country from supernatural threats both
domestic and foreign. As their acronym suggests, the Agency focuses mainly on
psionic threats (particularly since the increasing number of “supernatural”
incidents caused by the rise of Shadow would tax their resources beyond
capacity). They are the organization that takes the lead in cases concerning
the Mindwreckers, the Enlightenment, and the Silent Walkers.

Agents of PSI do not seek outside aid unless they have no choice whatsoever.
Their agency has been completely covert for decades, and they want to keep it
that way. However, if they come across an individual who manifests psychic
abilities (or shows great potential to) they will approach him or her about
joining the Agency.

Heroes will usually run into agents of PSI when they are unknowingly working
on the same case. The agents will try to convince heroes to drop the matter
and leave it to the “Pros from Dover,” but will grudgingly work with them if
the heroes are persistent enough.

Whether PSI is an agency of highly trained mundane agents who deal with
delusional groups that claim to be psychic, a group of spies who themselves
are delusional about having mental powers, or are actual psionicists
protecting the country from mentalist terrorists depends entirely on the GM’s
stance on psionics in the campaign. Whatever the decision, the Paranormal
Science and Investigation Agency can be a source of well-trained help when the
heroes face opponents who pose serious threats to national security. While
heroes with psionic powers certainly could belong to PSI, the organization’s
secretive nature would make it difficult for them to team up with heroes from
outside the agency.

All investigative agents are taught that one of the best ways to stay safe in
the field is to be sure that your target never sees you coming. This is
difficult for the agents of PSI. They have to not only be invisible but also
mentally undetectable. To this end, the agency has developed a discipline that
allows their operatives to completely shield their thoughts for a limited
period of time. All PSI Telepaths have access to the following psionic power:

**Psionic Blank**

Wisdom [Mind-Affecting]

Level: Telepath 1; Display: Visual; Manifestation Time: Attack action; Range:
Personal; Target: You; Duration: See text; Power Resistance: No; Power Point
Cost: See text

You can completely shield your mind. Detect psionics and other powers and
spells that target your mind cannot detect you while this power is in effect.
Psionic blank has a minimum power point cost of 1, which supplies 1 round of
duration.

When you manifest psionic blank you must decide how long you want the effect
to last, and spend the appropriate number of power points.

The effect dissipates at the end of your turn in the appropriate round. You
must wait until the beginning of your next turn before you can manifest
psionic blank again.

