---
title: Swiss Juncture of Gnomes
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Organizations ](/arcana.d20.srd/organizations) > Swiss Juncture of Gnomes

##  Swiss Juncture of Gnomes

Some Shadowkind find it difficult to make the transition to our world, others
are able just pick up doing exactly what they did before. Such is the case for
a group of gnomes who happened to pass through the veil of Shadow and find
themselves in Zurich, Switzerland. In more than one sense they were lucky. The
Swiss are an accepting people, and so they didn’t bat an eyelash at their new
neighbors. For another thing, no fewer than four languages are spoken fluently
in Zurich, and this gave the gnomes an advantage in dealing with people from
all over the world.

These particular gnomes had been scholars and inventors in their lives on the
other side of Shadow. They found that, advanced as the technology of the
mundane world is, there were some important gaps—and ones that they were more
than ready to fill. So they did what everyone in Zurich with an idea that will
revolutionize the globe does: they incorporated and opened a consulting
practice. Thus the Swiss Juncture of Gnomes was born.

Although very few people were interested in their inventions (self-winding
pasta, automated hat tippers, and instant mildew), it turned out that quite a
few wanted the gnomes to focus their “outside the box” thinking on other
problems. In recent years, the S.J.G. has developed natural disaster relief
programs for third-world countries, done feasibility studies on building domed
cities at the bottom of the sea, and designed a fully functional orbiting
laser-cannon platform that (because of cost overruns) never actually got
built.

The S.J.G. has opened offices in every major city worldwide, and do consulting
work for most of the major financial institutions and political organizations
in the western hemisphere. They charge a significant amount for their
services, but their patrons invariably think it is worthwhile. The gnomes are
also completely unconcerned with how their work will be applied, a trait that
many clients find invaluable but many advocate groups find unconscionable.
Heroes will not be interested in joining the Swiss Juncture of Gnomes—the
organization doesn’t actually do anything. However, if they can afford the
group’s rates (purchase DC of 35 for one month’s consulting contract with one
S.J.G. associate), they might want to hire the gnomes sometime to help out on
particularly difficult research assignments. On the other hand, the gnomes
constantly employ contract workers to help in their more physical activities
(such as traveling into the heart of the Amazon to locate a particular species
of butterfly). In this way, it is possible for heroes to make some money and
have access to one or more of the gnomes at the same time. If the heroes hire
S.J.G., they might be in the uncomfortable position of having requisition
requests passed their way. On the other hand, if they are hired by the gnomes,
they S.J.G. will supply all necessary equipment for achieving the mission’s
goals.

**The Workshop**

Although the gnomes of the Swiss Juncture now make their living as
consultants, their first love will always be tinkering and invention. Every
office of S.J.G. has a workshop fully equipped to do any kind of mechanical,
electronic, structural, or even merely cosmetic repair to just about any kind
of device or item.

They are willing to do repair work for a modest fee (see the Purchase DC rules
for Repair checks listed in the Repair skill description.) Every gnome in the
organization has the maximum number of ranks in Repair, and between them all
they have people willing to work twenty-four hours a day, so repairs will be
completed in the shortest time possible.

For an additional fee, the gnomes are always willing to make improvements to
any item they are repairing. They can add an enhancement bonus to any weapon,
add enchantments or spell-like abilities, or jury-rig a new mechanical
application. (For the Purchase DC, consult the rules for making magic items.)

