---
title: The Displaced
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Organizations ](/arcana.d20.srd/organizations) > The Displaced

##  The Displaced

The mundane world is full of charitable organizations, civic help groups, and
other resources for people helping other people. No one is really certain
whether or not this was as prevalent on the other side of Shadow, but
Shadowkind have adopted it since arriving in our world.

The Displaced is an umbrella organization that provides aid, assistance, and
information to people and intelligent creatures from beyond
Shadow—particularly during their difficult first few months of transition.
They help their clients learn about their new environment, teach them the
social customs, and introduce them to other Shadow creatures (as well as
mundanes who are Shadow friendly).

The group has a significant budget, generated through donations and
fundraisers. (Local governments and philanthropic organizations want nothing
to do with the Displaced, whom they see as a group of fantasy and science
fiction fans who like to pretend they are trolls and elves.) The group uses
this money to sponsor halfway houses, free clinics, job placement services,
and other community outreach programs.

While the Displaced is an international organization, each local chapter
functions autonomously. A large urban area may have as many as twenty or
thirty chapters (one for each distinct neighborhood in the city), and they
tend to work closely together. So no matter where a Shadow creature goes in
the mundane world, he or she knows that the insignia of the displaced means a
safe haven and a helping hand.

It is completely appropriate for heroes (particularly Shadowkind heroes) to
belong to the Displaced. Even if they don’t belong, many parties will want to
help this organization from time to time. Most of the Displaced’s money goes
into their programs, so they do not have much left to spend on requisitioning
equipment. Level checks for this purpose receive a –3 penalty. However, they
will always volunteer to let heroes use any equipment at any of their
facilities, as long as it is for a service that will aid the Shadow community.

**Friends of the Displaced**

Members of the organization receive a small booklet containing the contact
information for local organizations, companies, and individuals that have
promised support of one kind or another. Each listing provides a name,
address, phone number, email, and gives a short description of what sort of
aid the a visitor can expect (as well as any caveats, exceptions, or rules of
behavior that must be obeyed).

Each city or region has its own version of the booklet, and Shadowkind who are
new to an area must find the local central office of the Displaced in order to
pick one up. Some offices make their booklets available online but, in
deference to supporting businesses and individuals using mundane facades, it
is usually necessary to get a printed version.

