---
title: The Fellowship
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [Organizations](/arcana.d20.srd/organizations) > The Fellowship

## The Fellowship

We know that this is not the first time creatures and people have passed from
beyond Shadow into our world. There are oblique references to it throughout
history. So how did our forefathers deal with this incursion from beyond
reality? No one is completely certain, but there are rumors of a group known
only as the Fellowship stretching back to the very first incursion.

The Fellowship is an ancient, secret organization dedicated to keeping track
of and, when necessary, combating Shadow entities. No one is certain where the
group is headquartered, where it gets its funding, or what if any ulterior
motives it promotes. No one knows how to contact them, or where they get their
information—but everyone knows that when the Fellowship shows up something
terrible is on the verge of happening.

Agents of the Fellowship invariably have freakishly detailed information
regarding anyone and everyone they encounter. They always have a plan, a back-
up plan, and an emergency plan and the equipment needed to carry out all
three. And while they always fight to protect the world from unspeakable
danger, Fellowship agents consider extensive collateral damage to
neighborhoods, bystanders, and even allies to be “acceptable” in the pursuit
of the greater good.

There are many even among the Shadow community who believe that the Fellowship
is nothing more than a myth. But there are heroes everywhere who tell
whispered tales of how representatives of the organization showed up on their
doorsteps one day and pressed them into service on a particularly dangerous
mission.

Heroes will encounter agents of the Fellowship when and where they least
expect it. And even though the organization will make use of their skills and
abilities, the heroes will not actually become agents of the group. The
Fellowship will usually offer to pay heroes for their efforts either in cash
or by supplying equipment. They are more than willing to negotiate with the
heroes, but will demand greater (often more frequent) service for more
expensive or restricted materials. As a result, heroes do not requisition
materials using the usual rules. Instead they “cut a deal” with a Fellowship
agent. (GMs are encouraged to be agreeable bargainers—the Fellowship has a
nearly endless supply of equipment—but to demand more and more future work out
of the heroes.) The agent will supply the agreed upon materials in short
order. Often he will have the requested items on his person, as though he knew
ahead of time what the heroes would ask for. Heroes who attempt to renege on
their agreement will receive one very firm warning from the Fellowship agent
with whom they bargained. After that, if they continue to be deadbeats, the
Fellowship simply considers them “expendable.” They will not hunt the hero
down, but neither will they lift a finger to save the hero (or any of the
hero’s allies) should they get in the way of Fellowship operations.

**Sigil of the Fellowship**

Members of the Fellowship each carry a thin ceramic disk in the shape of the
group’s insignia. Some wear the disk as a pendant, others carry it in a coat
or pants pocket, but they are never go in the field without one. Occasionally,
the Fellowship will give a single sigil to a trusted ally, often as a reward
for helping to resolve a particularly difficult situation.

When the bearer breaks the sigil he or she may cast one of the following
spells:

  * Magic circle against enemies of the Fellowship centered on the person who broke the sigil.
  * Electromagnetic pulse centered on the person who broke the sigil.
  * Obscuring mist centered on the person who broke the sigil.
  * Recharge without the need for an electrical outlet on which to focus.

Type: Scroll (magic); Caster Level: 3rd; Purchase DC: 20; Weight: —.

