---
title: The Enlightenment
layout: '~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro'
---

[ Index ](/) > [ Arcana D20 ](/arcana.d20.srd) > [ Organizations ](/arcana.d20.srd/organizations) > The Enlightenment

##  The Enlightenment

A classic conspiratorial organization whose members all belong to the highest
level of international high society, the Enlightenment desires nothing short
of global domination. They use global forums such as the WTO, World Bank, and
WEF as covers to host their private meetings. In fact, the world at large is
completely unaware of the Enlightenment’s existence. One thing that sets the
Enlightenment apart from other global cartels is its belief in psionic
abilities. The organization hires psychics from around the globe and builds
complex strategies based on the use of the powers of the mind.

The Enlightenment’s ultimate goal is to create an industrious but content
world population with a strong work ethic, who leave the elite to make the
decisions (and reap the rewards). To the Enlightenment, money and power are
the ultimate measure of a person’s worth and can never reach a level of
excess.

As an organization, the Enlightenment takes great pains to stay on the right
side of international law. The last thing they want to do is draw attention to
themselves, especially from self-styled heroes. However, individual members of
the Enlightenment engage in their own bids for money and power—and some of
them are less careful about their business. Heroes, particularly ones with
connections to psychic and psionic resources, may find themselves facing off
against members of this elite organization.

The Enlightenment is not an organization that heroes should join, although
psionic heroes may often receive invitations and offers for employment. The
Enlightenment sets policies more often than it takes any direct action (it is
similar to OPEC in that it regulates what members do, but does not actually
perform any functions itself). However, since members of the organization are
supremely rich, anyone doing work for the Enlightenment can count on a +7 or
better bonus to level checks for requisitioning equipment.

**Calling Cards**

Business cards are a part of nearly everyone’s professional life, but members
of the Enlightenment have cards unlike any others. These cards are psychically
attuned to the person whose name is printed on the front, and allow anyone who
holds the card to make a “psychic phone call” to that person twice per day.
The cards work as the lesser mindlink psionic power. However, the person whose
name appears on the card has the option of refusing to acknowledge any
attempted communication.

Enlightenment members generally give calling cards only to trusted allies.
They have mundane business cards that they hand out more freely.

Type: Wondrous item (psionic); Caster Level: 1st; Purchase DC: 27 (per 100);
Weight: —.

